Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-06-07T18:48:18-02:30

====== Important People ======
Created Thursday 07 June 2018

Powerful Individuals
	Naþaniel "Le Requin" http://img.thesun.co.uk/multimedia/archive/00644/SNN0801TVQ-280_644148a.jpg
		A freelancer Mercenary after a payment dispute. He is large, bald, Muscular, and has filed down teeþ. He is 6'4. He watches carefully and can often be found doing some dirty work. He is a capable fighter and weilds a Sharpened Anchor on a chain. He is covered in scars. 
			"Heehaa You....lihttle sonoveebitsh, I will. Kill you. but not now."
			The shark, as he is known, is a rabbit-hole ender. He shows up when the party starts getting too off track into any one particular family.
		
	Guy DeFer "Þe Pipe King"
		A wily young man who knows þe city's Internal infrastructure and passageways better þan any oþer person alive or dead, he has built many of þem
		He is 5'5, and has wiry black hair þat seems uncontrollable. He does not appear to have weapons. He has Bad Blood wiþ þe DurFisher Family 
		 Rush voice, almost rip out your throat at the start "OH, Zis is encroyable"
		 This NPC really only exists to move the plot along but if consulted again, he is able to guide the party around the (con save 12) sewers to their exit hatches.
		//Dm//'//s// //note//: **Guy DeFer is actually Guy DurFisher, and was the heir to the DurFisher faction until his sister usurped him**
	
	Vinot Hatain "Souþport Stone"
		Þe harbormaster of Souþport. He is As Stern as Valtu Jaquy but humorless, Will sink ships wiþout blinking if þey don't pay þe toll. He has long black hair in a ponytail, a Tricorn hat, and stands at 5'7. He is Middle aged
			If the party lands on or moves throug southport, Vinot is obstructionist as possible. It takes  100 gold to launch or land from southport. Any interaction with him is monitored by pirates mounted on stormpiercers. He cannot be bribed, hence, "the stone"
				A good way to get around this is with the friend's cantrip or when escorted by a noteworthy member of one of the crews
				
		
	Valtu Jaquy "Count of Coins"
		Þe most able and discerning bookkeeper of Grand Tortuga, Þe most key piece for keeping peace
		Able to track down þe most subtle of embezzlements
		He has Long Brown hair, þin pince-nez, a purple vest, and a weak chin. He is 5'10 and is a Half-elf. He is þe Broþer to Memory Jaquy (by adoption)
			He's fantastically dead. Like, Super dead. The body is under the effects of a modified Gentle repose. Most spells that interact with the dead can no longer do so. 
	
	Acer "Underking"
		Þe Guardian of þe underport, a lich who crawled out of þe abyss below and set up shop here. Þe Stockwoods pay him even þough he not part of þe crew. 
		 he talks in deep whispers when he talks, which is rare.
			Acer doesn't really act much at all, He's in shock from what he experienced from the depths, and gets bugged by talking. He is, of course, Acererak, or at least one of the projections of the lich whose demilich dwells in the tomb of horrors. 
		
	Brevi Emba
		Þe Iyrelm Trading Company's head officer (ESFP)
			A relatively short white Dragonborn (5'10). Very talkative.
			Raise pallate (voice)
	
	Halili Svilsbo
		Þe Svilsbo Trading Company's Head officer, Errabent's Sister. Bit of a dick  https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/originals/47/0d/d2/470dd2fc25983f0483a4a9a7f6321335.jpg
			She Shows only contempt for the party if they try to buy goods. 
	
	Aiquen
		Horton's Trading Head officer 
			An Apathetic Elf who sees more þan she lets on. Rude.
				Some Japanese accent
	Murky
		Copper dragonborn Water Stillmaster. He is cruel and stupid.
			Matt Colville's Dragonborn accent
				Part of the main quest, a contact for Meng Shi.
	Athrog Þaum
		Master Baker, A Quaggoþ
			deep scratchy voice
				A red herring that can be dropped at any point
	Meng Shi
		A Decidente Changeling
			Part of the main quest 
	
	Willy Klas
		A Prodigy of Kveter-Klas' Mage slayers
			The opening Framee, He was actually at one of the whorehouses at the time of the murder.
		
	Leslie Hu!xura
		One of the Westport Angels, A storm Giant of considerable size. She Holds a large Halberd with a nasty hook on the back (Lochaber) or leans it up against her table. She has extremely long white hair and Wears very little, Settling with a brass Chestplate and a thick skirt over one leg. She wears tight shorts underneath. The rest of her silvery-grey skin is uncovered.
			She, along with Mirikius, is/are an optional fight. 
		
	Mirikius The Praised (88 29 )
		One of the Westport Angels. A Polymorphed Half-Dragon Beholder. She has Five Visible Eyes, all seemingly proportionate, with two where they should be, one in the middle of her forehead and two on her temples. Her Ivory skin is contrasted by her black Dragon wings and tail. Visible on her arms are intermittent scales of black. Two long horns sprout from above her ears and point skyward. Her teeth are pointed. Outside of those features she appears to be a human with pale but not white skin. Unlike Leslie, who is Extremely muscular, Mirikius shows smooth skin In her loose white sleeved dress 
