Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-06-07T18:52:56-02:30

====== Restaurants ======
Created Thursday 07 June 2018

Places to Eat
		43) Great Deal Kebabs!
				A seedy little Kebab shack near westport
		
		44) Morgan's Organs
				A quiet pub low norþ, Not a nice place to be, house special is a Dark Beer with a Toe in it.
		
		45) Teach's Own
				A bunkhouse and inn near eastport, deals in þe most illicit of drugs
		
		46) Xanaran's
				Of course þere's a Xanaran's. Run by Barstomun Strongbeard, Obviously. In Remesari circus
		
		47) Kidd's Corner, 
				A Modest establisment mid souþeast, Usually Living entertainment 
		
		48)  The Black Bal
				The underside of a Brewery, Right Next To Decidente's Baked goods. Serve a Special "Morning ale"
		
		49) Þe French Dragon
				You're not sure what a french is, but þey serve a really good Hot Phoenix Sandwich (it's actually just Turkey, and everyone knows that, but no one cares), Frequently to a known Bard's Playing. Low Souþwest
		
		50) The Sammish Axeman
				Mid Norþeast, For a drop of 20 gold, you can feed two people wiþ þe finest Griffin Shank in Goldblood sauce
		
		51) Bonny Anne's Kitchen
				High Souþ, þeir cheapest Dish is 40g, and þeir most expensive costs an Astral diamond
				
	
The Shivering spine
	**-NO WARFORGED, SHARDMINDS, IF YOU DON'T NEED TO EAT YOU'RE NOT ALLOWED IN-** 
	Low south, a large building with Hobgoblin Architecture (Japanese), well lit by paper lanterns, It has wide windows that function as displays for their wares, prostitutes and drugs, and as rooms that are available should anyone want an audience. The building is supported by concrete, and the walls on the outside that aren't glass are mirrored (and reflect magic). It has one entrance from which the smell of incense wafts. Two wide sliding doors that are guarded by two Furi Footmen. Just inside the door is a small room that contains a Furi Mobster as backup. There is a short hallway that is bifurcated by a triangular desk, behind which is an entirely naked attendant (choose their gender and race by rolling or something) The attendant gets incomers to sign their name on a large tome nearby the desk. It is enchanted so that someone cannot lie about their name. The large, well-worn hallway to the left is plaster walled and has red floors worn away to show time-polished wood. Six footmen demand that everyone leaves their weapon in a weapon check. Then, two doors that swing in open up to reveal a large, square room. All around, patrons, prostitutes, Drugs, drinks. The center the room is an open set of steps and booths that lead down into a large pool of what is clearly wine. The floor of this room is made of black stone that highly contrasts the mostly red decor. The walls are more private booths that are separated by bead curtains. There are even more private rooms in behind where prudish patrons can partake in the vices offered. Patrons are offered food, drugs, and drink on the same menu by perceptive attendants who attempt to discern their animal tastes. There are occasional pickpockets, some of them house-employed, who try to lift weapon checks. Anyone who gets caught gets dragged into a specific room and isn't seen from again. The Red and beige paint and bright yellow light from the incandescent bulbs mounted in the ceiling give a cozy feeling to the fairly large room. There are usually about 30 patrons, and about 14 staff.
	
		MENU
			Meats 
				Beef - 1 gold
				Pork - 6 silver
				"Phoenix" - (Lesser phoenix, Turkey) -8 silver
				Chicken - 4 silver
				Crab - 4 silver
				Elk - 8 silver
				Cod - 5 silver
				Mackrel - 4 Silver
				Tuna - 1 gold
				Salmon - 9 silver
				Shrimp - 4 silver
				Mussel - 2 silver
				
			Sauces - 1 silver
				Pineapple reduction (sweet and sour sauce!) 
				Coconut and butter 
				Honey
				Chocolate
				Gravy
				Mokoijo sugar (an extremely savoury spice from the east that when warmed is liquid, but very rapidly takes on a brittle crystaline consistency as it cools. Despite its name, it is not sweet)
				Sweet Ghost Pepper (Con saves of 13 are required to not succumb to the poisoned condition for ten minutes, being resistant or immune to poison negates this effect)
				Dry Ghost Pepper (Con saves of 13 are required to not succumb to the poisoned condition for ten minutes, Being resistant or immune to poison negates this effect)
				Wraith pepper (upon eating this sauce, the patron takes 1d6 damage every bite unless they are resistant or immune to poison, or have a constitution score over 15)
				Whale Cheese Sauce
				Fish Sauce
				Tamarind sauce
				
			Dishes
				Infernal Curry (Clove oil, Chili peppers, walnuts, Cured Porkbelly, Cardamom, black pepper, Melted Chocolate, allspice, basil, Toasted lemon, Butter,) - 3gold
				Coconut Curry - 1 gold 
				Surf Curry (green Sea Turtle meat, a special type of seaweed starch, butter, shrimp, Corriander, Cardamom, Cumin, and Mango Vinegar) 1 gold
				French Fries (the attendants will not respond if anyone asks what a french is) - 4 silver
				Pickled Mango snacker (pieces of pickled mango in oil, salt, vinegar, with a mix of spices) (Watch out, they stain things yellow easily) - 8 silver
				Pork Scrunchions - 2 silver
				Fruit bowl (Mango, Honeydew melon, Dates, Pineapple slices) - 5 silver
				Onion rings - 3 silver
				Savoury Dressing - 1 silver
				Poutine - 2 silver
				
			Drinks (+5g to get it laced with something mindboggling) 5 glasses a bottle, though a cautious drinker can stretch that.
				Furi Select (red)  - 15 gold per bottle - 4 Gold a glass
				Vi'Namak (merlot) - 13 gold per bottle - 3 gold, Five silver a glass 
				Ilfea blend (white)  - 11 gold per bottle - 2 gold, 7 silver, Five copper a glass
					
					
			Braided Mead 12 gold bottle 
				Mystic Metheglin (Rhododendron, Hallucinogenic) 17 gold a bottle
				Melomel
				Cyser
				Dry
				Spiced
				Marijuana Metheglin 12 Gold, 5 silver a bottle
			Substance
				Cocaine 10g/gram
				Psilocybin 5g/gram
				Shaman Suicide Dust 6g/gram 				
				Tobacco/Marijuana 4g/kilogram
				Fisher's Tobacco 4.6g/kilogram
				Farsight Pollen 2g/dose (//gives prophetic visions of the best possible future but is extremely addicting// (con save 25) //so the second dose mostly just shows how to get the next dose. The Furi keep a tight grip on its production and thus all of the addicts to this drug end up working for the furi//.)
			Enchantment
				10g/hour
			Other serivces
				5g/hour
