Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-06-07T18:53:49-02:30

====== Town ======
Created Thursday 07 June 2018




Town Structure Format
	Town
		Ringed roads at (1, 3, 5, 8, 13 )X6mi from the coast
		
		Zig-zag Switchbacks from each port and halfway between. Roads are wider at the bottom and more narrow near the top from 30ft wide to 10ft wide. 
		
		slope of the hill is rather steep linearly, approximately 30 degrees, and a couple of roads reflect that. Most roads are either flat, or near flat.
		
	Houses. 
		Turtle houses tend to have a few things in common. Houses are often separated by very narrow alleys. Gardens are extremely rare and most vegetables are "imported". Neighbors are frequently strangers, windows are small but front-side skylights are very common, granting privacy and natural light. The island is tropical, and with the placement of certain services, northport has the highest property value. 
		
		Houses tend to be small and defensible, always with a basement. A small pipe is inserted directly into the main sewer line, so plumbing jobs are frequently done in house. 
		
		houses are usually only 15x10 with a steep spiral stair in one corner. The stairs can be collapsed and locked into place for moving furniture or denying entry to upper levels. 
		
		Doors are always locked. Always. The locks are quite frequently Trick locks, which if not opened a certain way, will loose a trap against the invader, usually a bear trap (+8, 1d10, DC15str, Speed becomes 0, DC10 spot, Dc10+tools to disarm). Doors are ironwood, (ac18)
		
		Houses Frequently have an upper floor. People tend to sleep in Hammocks on the upper floor, which mostly just consists of a small (5x10) landing. The hammock is attached on a diagonal to railing. 
		
		Cooking ranges are uncommon, Parafin Wax is used as fuel in old manuals, most ranges are electric.
		
		The main floor is where clothes and belongings are stored. There is very little, if any furniture for sitting. 
		
		There is a small commode on the main floor above the pipe leading from the basement. The basement is often where provisions are stored, frequently with a small magical fridge.
		
	**Taverns, bars, and restaurants**
		These are all big affairs in Grand Tortuga. Everyone eats with friends or allies nearby. Eating alone is seen as strange. 
		
		Eating Areas are arranged in 10*15 Corridors with dividers between them so no one has their back to the room. The Kitchen is closer to the front of the building so that servers can walk straight down the corridors. 
		
		The walls have many mirrors, often angled so you can see around corners. The mirrors do not line up well so you cannot see around multiple corners
		
		The finest dining places do not have these restrictions. 
		
		The prices for beer and wine are switched here. 
		
		Everything is served with lemon. This is a very old and honored Turtle Custom.
		
		Every restaurant has their own special house dish. It is always Green Sea turtle based.
		
	Story bits
			There used to be fight pits in Grand tortuga, 800 years ago. After a few fouled bets and cheating from the audience, the entire island erupted into uncontrollable war. The council, only 12 members at the time, would have frequent ties, but in this, they were unanimous. No More fight pits
			
			The average age of people in Grand tortuga is about 65 years old, but this is artificially propped up by vampires, ghosts, and elves. All things considered, this is not a good place to age.
			
			Frequently, Merchants will come to grand tortuga to buy their goods back from pirates. They adjust their prices accordingly.
			

		
