Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-10-16T21:54:33-02:30

====== Murder_Mystery ======
Created Tuesday 16 October 2018

What we have
Make sure your clues aren't hidden behind skill checks, unless they're very special clues that really push the investigation forward.
Avoid having a "choke-point" clue, which is needed to progress.
Make sure more than one NPC has a motive and an alibi.
yada yada.
All of that is only helpful to a point. I have noticed, however, that we seem to be lacking a lot of the how.

What we're lacking
How did the nobleman's wife manage to kill him?
How did all the lights go out at the moment of the murder?
How can I, the killer, make sure I'm not found?
How was magic used in this murder?
What mechanics can be used to encourage certain decisions?
What I have to offer
I have a few ideas to offer, and I'd like to see your ideas as well.

Mechanics
As DMs, we don't have to play by the same rules as the players. Our characters can have their own made-up abilities. Our evil wizards know of dark rituals and spells not found in the core books. We can create whatever magic item we want. But most importantly, we can create mechanics which wouldn't normally exist.

Insanity
Let me just get this one out of the way real quick: The DMG has optional rules for an insanity attribute. If the murder has anything to do with Old Gods, Great Old Ones or Outsiders, feel free to use that to make the players go slowly insane.

Sleep
If you've ever read "And Then There Were None", a very frightening element of that book is that no one knows who did it, yet they have to spend a few days on the island. That means they have to sleep while a murderer is on the loose. Hell, there was no evidence that it was a single murderer.

Murder mysteries which last a few days can force the players to sleep, or suffer the consequences of the Exhaustion mechanic. Giving the players the choice: Do you rest, or do you risk having disadvantage on skill checks?

Ignoring the levels of exhaustion, how do the players sleep? Perhaps they simply state "We're going to go sleep. Someone will be on guard duty. Anyone who enters the room dies." in an effort to discourage NPCs (and the killer especially) from entering their room. Alright, then have the killer kill other NPCs, or set their door on fire.

If none of the above strikes your fancy, then maybe the PCs don't know each other. Should they truly rest together? Can they really trust that guy with watch duty?

Time Limit
The deceased was going to chose sides in a war. His heir has two days to chose. Failure to due so will incur some harsh penalties. Suddenly, the players might have to make some less than savory decisions and might have to resort to force to gather clues, which have been hastily put together, leaving the identity of the killer unclear.

Clue Points
While I'm only doing a "one"-shot, you might be planning a full 5-7 sessions-worth of content. To avoid some needless frustration, you might want to give your players "Clue Points". These points can be expended to uncover a new clue. You can chose how many the party has, if each player has one, if they can recharge these points or if they're a one-time thing.

A Living World
This is something a lot of DMs seem to love to shout from the rooftops: "Your world is a living world!", which is a way of saying "Stuff happens in the background." Personally, my "living world" has been mostly predetermined NPC interactions and decisions happening, and the PCs hearing of it after the fact. My players aren't the most interested in background NPC stuff, and that's fine.

In a murder mystery, however, it does matter. A lot more than one might think.

Killings
Did your killer have a single target? If so, they'll want to lay low, and dispose of any evidence. And, of course, people are always so noisy after a murder! Better get rid of that maid while no one's looking. She was looking at us suspiciously, after all. Perhaps the killer has multiple targets, and has to manipulate the guests into grouping-up in specific ways. Or perhaps they arrange for their second target to be found guilty, resulting in a pretty clean kill. Maybe the killer wants to kill everyone there

What of the other people, the innocents, are they just going to stay there and do nothing? Of course not! Lady WhiteTower swears is was Sir Kenedy! If no one believes her, and the facts are so clearly fake, she might just poison his tea to save the day herself! Perhaps the mercenary captain, who was invited to the party, kills another attendee who was looking in his room for proof that he was the killer, thinking that the attendee was planting evidence! And perhaps the attendee was planting evidence, hoping to kill the mercenary captain, who he's had a grudge against for years. It was the perfect time, after all.

What happens if your players kill someone in self defense, and are found with a bloody corpse on their hands? Will the other guests simply believe them? Will they order the players to remain under watch? Perhaps they'll order they players arrested, until someone else dies and they need them again.

Wandering
Where is the chef? What about the herald? Has anyone seen the widow and her daughter? Once the game is on and everyone is doubting each other, the players might have a hard time finding some NPCs. Eventually, they might start to think that those NPCs have been killed. An NPC that wanders regularly might be found dead, planting evidence, looking for evidence, spying on someone they suspect, etc. It's important to keep in mind who can be wandering around and why.

Whispers
Depending on the political position of the guests, some of them might be less than inclined to help the players freely, while others might be more than happy to give them information, from their point of view, of course. Information doesn't have to come cheap, and sometimes rightfully so. NPCs may wish to exchange information for favors from the PCs, or they might be lying outright. Perhaps they're lying by omission or evading questions, if they're unable to outright lie.

Magic
Of course, what is D&D without magic? Magic brings so much potential to a murder mystery! A wide variety of spells can be used by the killer to control the situation. And lets not forget magic items, for those poor mortals without the powers of Creation at their fingertips.

Items
[Minor Curse of Strahd spoiler] In CoS, the players can find a "murder mirror" which allows the user to speak the name of a target, which is then tracked and killed by a spectral assassin. These kinds of items can be really cool for everyone involved. They provide great methods of killing people, and great reveals for murders. Here are a few ideas for magic items that can be used in a murder mystery:

Blood Hound Collar: This leather dog collar must be placed on a creature with an intelligence score of 4 or less. If the creature's intelligence was raised via the Awaken spell, and their intelligence score would be 4 without it, the collar still affects them. If the name of a creature, to which the wearer of the collar is loyal to, is spoken, the wearer feels an intense need to kill that creature, and will stop at nothing short of death to bring an end to the creature. The collar visibly glows when activated. If the collar is removed, or enters a magic-cancelling area, the wearer returns to normal. If the target dies, the wearer instantly becomes hostile towards the nearest creature.
Note: Can be used to either cause a distraction, or kill the target. The glow will immediately alert people of foul play, and the wearer suddenly attacking a creature it was loyal to will also raise some eyebrows.

Mirror Blade (requires attunement): This +2 dagger is invisible, although its reflection can be seen. If its reflection passes over the reflection of an unattuned creature, it damages that creature.
Note: Can be very deadly on a creature with some form of multiattack. Mirrors aren't the only thing that cast reflections.

Bloody Brush (requires attunement): This artist's brush has the ability to give life to any painted creature it touches. The creatures obey the brush's user, and act on their own turns. The painted creature instantly dies if it enters sunlight. 3 charges, recharges if bathed in the blood of an innocent at night.
Note: The creatures still look like paintings. They can lay dormant until the time is right, and then strike. Could be used to distract others while retreating. Could kill someone while the user's away to rule them out.

Puppeteer's Handkerchief (requires attunement): This regular-looking handkerchief can be rubbed to a single item to form a link to it. When the user desires it, the handkerchief can be activated. Once activated, the linked object mimics the movements of the handkerchief. The user can use a free action to break the link.
Note: Powerful, but the user needs to physically rub the handkerchief on the targeted item. Can be used on things like diner knives and forks to cause some very strange deaths.

General note: Keep in mind that having a magical item on your person is a pretty good way to get caught by anyone who can detect magic, and fast.

Spells
I'm not going to talk about most spells. Yes, you can use a whole bunch of the spells in the PHB and other books to cause some truly subtle mayhem, but I'm not interested in that. I'm not interested, because the spell list is well known to veteran players, and won't really have the oomf we're looking for (especially since it takes some of the mystery away). No boy, we're going to be talking about rituals!

Dark rituals are always a blast! They require a complex list of ingredients, need to be performed at a certain time, and sometimes at a certain place by a certain someone. Most of the time, they require the caster to have something that belongs to the target, usually hair or blood. Perhaps they simply know the target's True Name. Rituals can have a multitude of effects on a target: it can curse them, outright kill them, send a dark creature to hunt them down, etc.

The great thing about rituals is, if you're not killing the target in front of everyone (and you should, think of the theatrics!), The actual killer could've been anyone, or any group of people.

What can you offer?
Anyways, that's all I have. I'd be thrilled if you guys could share some ideas for things like magic items and rituals. I feel like the "Mechanics" and "A Living World" section can be kind of obvious when you start thinking about them (don't let that discourage you from suggesting any, though!), but I feel like magic items that could be used in a murder mystery are hard to come-up with (same goes for rituals).
