Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-05-14T15:32:37-02:30

====== Avisen ======
Created Monday 14 May 2018

The Avisen Family were the family that tracked down and found the Buried Fugin Chest, starting with Friedrich, Luciaria's father. They are a family of vampires.

The Head of the Avisen Family
		Luciaria Avisen (warlock) ENFP
			A human Vampire wiþ Silver eyes and Long white hair Wiþ her bangs pulled out of her eyes and tied behind her head. She has Large breasts and wears a revealing Green leaþer corset wiþ a swallowtail and a hitched skirt. She walks barefoot and stands at 5'4. She is always smiling, but never wiþ her eyes, which are always filled wiþ  Purple fire over Constantly shifting irises
			(almost http://gothicdecor.net/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/vampgoth1.jpg http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-Xc8Tg1zIwQA/UjAbuM5i3EI/AAAAAAAAAn0/Oyqh-wDlUTc/s1600/emo+girls+(18).jpg)
	
	
	Avisen Faces (Diplomats)
		Malachi Uzbert ENTJ - Deep Voice, speaks fairly slowly Very wide "as", Snarky, Tall 6'3, salt and pepper hair but young face "Take a moment and just see what happens" "well-ah" -look down while talking
		
		Quercannon Freun KilCallahan INTJ - Queit, intelligent, but harsh thinking. If his thoughts had voice, everyone would feel bad. "This matter needs to be dealt with" Slightly nasal, Neutral, slightly egoraptor. 5'8, Dark Brown Hair. Plays a marimba in private when particularly angry
		
		Reichen Avisen ENFP
			A gruff but talkative blacksmith in Remesari Circus. He has shaggy white hair and a trimmed beard. His eyes are yellow. He is one of the most diplomatic of the Avisen. He speaks with a deep french-canadian accent and trilled Rs and Hs "Whell, f(r)iend, (h)ao ah euu todday"
			
		Urisi Merkelov ENTP
			A sour and rage driven vampire wizard who makes constant use of Thaumaturgy. She is among the most creative of the avisen, but is short on patience and is mildly paranoid. French, Airy voice, Extremely callous, "You Failed to B(r)ing zem to me and fo(r) zat, I vill 'alf you BURNED"
	
		
	Avisen Encampment
	
Only accessible through magic of some kind, the Avisen Cave is known only to the Avisen and the stockwoods. Because of their undead nature, the stockwoods are unimpedable by Avisen Magic, but their cave is deep and hard to access. Bats nest freely in the cave. It is decorated quite obviously in faux-gothic ornaments. Black, red, and golden-brown are staple. Done in a well laid out mansion, the Avisen cave is composed of a square outer cloister leading to of a variety of rooms, well-adorned, and individually suited. The rooms have frequent large windows that look both outward onto an artificial lake lit by a pale blue-white orb of magic and inward to the square courtyard and The rooms of Lady Luciaria. Some rooms are lit by magical lamps that glow as firelight, others not at all. The central courtyard hosts a suitable statuary with an assortment of grotesque, debauched, or suggestive statues, all masterfully carved. 
	Luciaria Avisen's house consists of three stories and a basement, though the cielings are low. The front door opens into a recieving room with stark wooden benches on either side of the long horizontal room. Just behind the front recieving room, is a single, thick, oaken door, which opens in to a quaint room with a square table off to one side, with a charmed elf chained to it. He looks pale and sick, and has multiple puncture marks on his neck and he mumbles constantly in the throes of a magical dream. On his skin are lacerations in a variety of shapes, many crude, some old, some fresh and still bleeding. The other side of the room contains a rather large set of bookshelves and hard wood chairs with plush velvet cushions. The shelves and the chairs are dusty, they have not been used in a while.  In the middle of the floor is a large circle of magical intent, it is carved permanently into the wooden floors, and kept well clear. Near the table is a smokeless fireplace that seems to burn intently without actually having any fuel, the house is kept very warm. Near the back is a thin stair leading from right to left, covered in Emerald Green wallpaper with off-white fleur de lis about an inch long and an inch apart from eachother. The wall behind the stair is wood panel, which, halfway up borders and transitions to red with off-white stars. 
	The second Floor is Luciaria's Private chambers. Above the entrance downstairs is her bed, an absolutely massive four-poster draped with Thick purple curtains. The room itself is well lit by magical lanterns and kept warm by the chimney running through the side wall. A vanity with a cracked mirror sits opposite the chimney, next to wich is a very tall, intact mirror facing a large armoire. Just above the stairwell is a small ledge with a large silvered pick poised to swing down at the flick of a lever near the chimney. In the center of the room is a wrought iron spiral stair, which leads up to a small Lanterna, which acts as an ironic solarium. Near the chimney as well is a very massive porcelain bathtub. It has some brown stains which an investigation check of 13 will reveal to be blood.
	The basement stairs are hidden behind a panel underneath the stairs in back. They are steep and ill-maintained. The room inside is almost spotless, it has not been used in a long time. It has flagstone floors and a small dias near the back. on it is a coffin and inside that, there is a man with a slightly weak chin, white hair, and a dark Captain's coat. He has a stake driven through his heart but gives the impression that this could have been moments ago. For the purposes of Magic in this world, pulling out the stake or a modified resurrection spell will restore luciaria's Father, Friedrich Avisen, to his vampiric unlife, he has the power to  undo Luciaria's pact by excercising his powers of mind control over his daughter. He is cold, cunning, ruthless and will make no alliances that can't be avoided by simply turning someone into a thrall.
	
