Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-06-07T18:28:53-02:30

====== Barry ======
Created Thursday 07 June 2018

Ship Barry

Major NPCs
	Barry Bosses	
		Raylag Barry	
			Raylag Barry (ranger) ESTP,
			A Giþyanki wiþ a resting sneer, His teeþ are always visible unless he closes his mouþ on purpose. His Skin is Yellow. He has A Bizzare knife (Kpinga, handaxe) tucked into his belt. https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/assets/268850/Githyanki.png?1385885962 He stands at 5'10, and his eyes are pale pink 
			
		Shrugta Barry ISFP
			Githyanki Druid, Grandmother, Small build, straight dark gray hair, thin. She speaks rarely but is filled with wisdom about living, maybe not so much about politics. small, thin crackly grandma voice. "oh, you have come" seems comfortable with everything
			
	Barry Diplomats
		Ergatu Tetri - ESFJ
			A tall personal problem solver of a Gith, but doesn't take insults well, very "my way or no way"
			He has a calm voice, with a very neutral accent. His voice is not whispery
			
		Mikiti Raum - INTP
			A lanky human woman whose mastery of her inborne power is obvious by the way she continually glows. She is extremely logical but lazy. If she judges something is worthy of conflict, that thing is going to be tackled with the full effect of her mind first, her magic second. She has Brown shaggy hair and slightly puffy cheeks. Her accent is very neutral american.
			
	Barry Encampment
		The Barry encampment is hidden behind a portal in the back of a closet in the North East of Grand tortuga. 
		
		The House is a symmetrical hallway. The first doors are bunks for their Higher Officials, Near the end there is a large room containing their broken astral sea ship, The last room contains the abode of Raylag and Shrugta, who sleep behind screens on either side of Avuzbodet


The barry are unique among the Pirates of Grand Tortuga, in that they are the only group that arrived accidentally. Raylag's poor leadership ended up hurling them adrift through the far realm. They are still pirates, and fit in well and quickly among Grand Tortuga. Unfortunately, they have been unable to secure a way to leave the plane, and they make a comfortable enough profit here. Raylag has one major weakness in his psyche. He has no chance of finding a wife, and his grandmother reminds him constantly of the importance of keeping the family alive. Many of the Gith in the Barry have far surpassed the power of their Lich-queen. Her power could now be theirs.

The Barry Monster
		The Barry monster is both summoned and dismissed with Use of Avuzbodet, A bed made of Streaked marble that is stark other than the gold trim and purple spinel. Carved into the marble is the Key rune that invokes the spell when someone sleeps on the bed. 
		The Monster comes in the form of gaping yellow-and red maws that are lined with large ivory teeth. The maws are incredibly wide but not proportionately thick. Falling into one is certain death.
		The monster follows these rules. 
			i. When the mouths appear, they will only do so on surfaces that are mostly horizontal. They will not appear on steep hills, walls. 
			ii. The Mouths cannot cross gaps , but they seem to replace the surface they're on so small cracks cease to exist.
			iii. The mouths only stay around for a minute at a time
			iv. The mouths can only appear 7 times an hour.
			v. The mouths have a functionally infinite depth
			vi. the mouths will not appear on any surface that is covered in silver, glass or a sufficiently thick layer of salt. Salt will dispel the mouth if you try to step into it, but can be washed away.
			vii. If the mouth appears on a surface covered in gold, it will be stuck there for a full seven minutes. 
			viii. Mouths will only appear all at once, they cannot stagger their timing.
			ix. All mouths must be gone before new mouths can form
			x. Mouths can never intersect, and they rarely run perpendicular to eachother. 
			xi. Each mouth ends abruptly in a smooth and shallow arc that is always at least 15ft away from any part of any other mouth.
			xii. Mouths will always attempt to appear at similar conceptual levels or sized surfaces. If a mouth appears on the floor, another cannot also appear on a table on that floor. If it appears on the table, it might appear on a nearby counter  so long as the difference in height is only slight (a slope of 1/2 or less between closest points)
	The encounter follows these rules
		i. One Githyanki must lie in the bed for the duration of the appearance of the monster, During this time, the gith is unconscious and experiences the monster's presence as a dream. To control the monster, The githyanki Grandmother "Shrugta Barry" Draws on belly of the sleeping gith in patterns that have been handed down from generation to generation, with a pen and a special white ink, while singing an ancient family song that describes the motions. The Gith that sleeps is then unable to partake in the ritual for another month. 
		ii. The Githyanki blow a horn just before the mouths are unleashed. They do this every time for the first day but then on the second day, they will occasionally stop just to screw with people who figured it out early
		iii. when the Mouth appears, Everyone within The area of any part of the mouth must make a Dex save (dc12) or fall in. 
		iv. Everyone within 15ft of the pit must make a DC15 Charisma saving check or be charmed. On their next turn they move at their full speed toward the maw, using their dash as their action. As a bonus action on their turn, a player can disrupt the Charmed player by grabbing them. They can also do this as a reaction. 
		v. Falling into the pit is instant irrecoverable death without a body. Make this clear. 
	The barry compound is Located through a portal in the back of a closet, behind a false door(per17,inv10), Clues can be found throughout the island in many ways. The Barry retreat to their compound when they decide to summon the monster, so none of their members can be found or traced. They are shielded from scrying.
		i. The horn sound seems to come from everywhere, but that's just because it echoes. Flying allows you to locate its origin, which is The bottom of a pot in the mid-north
		ii. The stockwood ghosts mention that they often met them in eastport 
		iii. the Macleodquin flagship can always be seen on the north-east side of the island.
		iv. The Bal'jasar are getting inside information on the frequency of the monster's occurences, they get this via messenger bird who roosts in a house near the portal
		v. The barry have Isloated and uniquely designed ships in port, an animal can be used to track their distinct scent with a decent level of ease 
		vi. The portal can be detected if you're within 20ft of it and make a DC 15 arcana check.

		
