Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-06-07T18:29:48-02:30

====== Bruchev ======
Created Thursday 07 June 2018

Ship Bruchev
	Leaders
		Slovenka Bruchev, Sorcerer, ISTJ
			An old human lady who Never seems to touch þe ground. She is 4'8, hunched. Her eyes are one fierce sky blue and þe oþer an iridescent shade not unlike polished brass. She is stern, terse, and does not talk much. She is a sorcerer, fueled by copper Dragon's Blood. Her grandfather was wooed by a lich-bard-princess of the Manarahi, with a song that lasted six years and took the lives of forty people with its immensity and magical intricacy. Her father was a half dragon sorcerer himself, her mother, an assassin who intended to take his life but was nowhere near qualified, and couldn't escape afterward. Her husband was a large human, Francois Richard Meramour Tibeaux. With him, she bore one child. Jean-baptiste arno sebastien tibeaux was a cook and a trader, and his son, jean-baptiste arno sebastien tibeaux II was a quiet boy who fell in love with a tiefling named Kallista from Danzuishan. Her Great grandson, a fool of a pirate, is a tiefling as well. The dread pirate Captain Lazarus honore dorian tibeaux. Slovenka is 122 years old. Her tastes have changed a lot during her life, but currently, she secretly very much enjoys children's books and Pebblerpony apples in bacon wraps. She is a high functioning alcoholic. Somehow. 
			
		Meguromaki aoji, wizard, INFJ
			A caring servant to Slovenka, and a master of Enchanting. He studies daily, obsessing over the power of emotions. Despite their political affiliations, he is friends with Quercannon Kilcallahan of the avisen and secretly infatuated with Lagarach Munsa. He has short brown hair, a slightly round face, and wears a fine blue robe. 
			
	Trump: 
			No one expects Grandpappy Viintaasklo, an Ancient Copper Dragon to still be alive, but he is, and quite well situated in Danzuishan. 
			
	Notable members
		Mawë Berninam ESTP
			a brute of an elf, a paladin no less. He gets problems solved with ruthless efficiency. Blonde, Wears Red Felted Plate armor.
		
		Autry Merceros ESFJ
			a stout dwarf necromancer whose self-interest is matched only by the control she exerts over her small army of undead.
			
		Uri Kantemir ENFP
			A magical sniper, with a ridiculously powerful crossbow. He can fire one shot every six seconds but damn, they're scary, and missing is rare. He doesn't talk much anymore.
			
Location (14)
			

			
	Bruchev Village
		A collection of houses in the high southeast region. Slovenka herself lives near the highest peak in an airy two-floor building with plenty of amenities. She stays mostly on the top floor, while Meguromaki stays on the bottom, frequently using his unseen servants to do her chores. The nearby houses are all bruchev. Slovenka's Vulnerability is a façade, and she is protected by powerful magicians.
		
		**As of 5854 Slovenka's old house is a hospital being run by a small halfling named Lavinia, a cleric necromancer who worships many gods of undeath**
