Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-06-07T18:34:58-02:30

====== DurFisher ======
Created Thursday 07 June 2018

Ship DurFisher

Leader
	Ghuivere DurFisher (ENFJ) (BAAAAAARD)
			A black-haired half-elf whose Green eyes sparkle in þe sunlight. She wears a puffy striped hat wiþ a large feaþer. She wears a Þick Leaþer coat and breeches. She plays a trumpet, Often disruptively loud and at awkward times. She is 5'6 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VU27_28hoKs
			
Diplomat
		Ceasar Salad (ISFJ)
			An edgy man with a knife and a lot of belts. Like, a 
			lot of belts, an excessive amount of belts. Vash the Stampede from Trigun gets hand-me-downs from this guy. That said, he's effective. Not as a diplomat but as the sort of person who shows up to tell you to fuck off a week before he kills you. While you're awake. You'll look right at him and never see him coming. 
		
		Ramone Mixington (ENTP)
			A little shit who delivers the weekly blackmail. A tall elf with their black hair up in a tight ponytail, 6'2. Exceptionally talented poisoner
			
		Collections Officer Guiseppe Mangreaux (ESFJ) 
			A cruel, disdainful and not particularly intelligent Warlock. He is stubborn and Thorough
	
DurFisher Depot
	The Durfisher are, logically decentalized in their central office. They have more than one on purpose.
		The Lobby, as it is known, is where most people come to "clear up" their blackmail. The DurFisher are fairly good with disposing of blackmail that gets paid off, or at least, it doesn't appear to surface again. The lobby is in  high northwest
		
		The Hut is the barracks for the common troupe, the agents and petty thieves of the DurFisher Alike
		It consists of several small rooms, lightly furnished, and easily accessible to the public, but guarded day and night. Low norþ
		
		The mailroom, the central office is a well hidden vault by nature of it literally being made of floating rock, tethered by an invisible chain on a rooftop. A wizard waits at a new building each day to teleport officals back and forth to the windowless location. It contains Ghuivere Durfisher's Main Quarters as well as the office in which the blackmail is sorted and dispatched to the lobby. The Vault itself is a large row of filing cabinets that are magically sealed and guarded by warforged clerics who are armed with powerful warding magic. Beyond lies a messy room with a huge skylight, it is rather unremarkable otherwise outside of the soundproofing on the walls. On the side of the Vault is the Clerk's Quarters, where the vault dwellers dwell. It is a large bunk room, and a small kitchen.
