Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-02-08T21:59:02-03:30

====== Drakenhearth ======
Created Saturday 08 February 2020

**A Module I ran in Drakenhearth**


Determine a marching order
A warning. There are places coming up that can kill you if you're stupid. You'll understand why shortly. It would behoove one to be safe, but this adventure is in your hands, there are many magic items, Giant Boss Battles

A few weeks of sailing later, a flying snake lands on the rigging of the Highwater, It is shortly joined by another, and then hundreds, many of them munching on capelin and similarly sized small fish. Quite suddenly, the ships are pulled into a current that pulls them in toward shore. For some reason, the shore doesn't seem to get closer. Upon inspection the players are riding on a tsunami into dense jungle. Both ships sustain heavy damages, with the Highwater's rudder sheared, and the sister with holes poked in the bottom. This activates the weight of the world (up or down)

It will take time to repair. 

DRAKENHEARTH
Jungle
Hot (double water needs, Con Save 5+n for each n hour every hour for exhaustion. Disadv save for med or heavy armor. Resist fire auto succeed, Bullywug succeed)
Loud (Perception check disadvantage)

Occasional Heavy Precipitation (lightly obscured, extinguish fires)

A nature check of 20 to find edible food.
 Survival check of 15 to navigate
 
Difficult terrain without a proficient ranger
2 miles an hour at stealth, 3 miles normal otherwise 



Food: 1lb a day (exhaustion beyond 3+con days)
Water: 2 gal a day (hot)


 
Desired mood: Crowded, Threatening. Urge to move in toward the Slaad invasion.
Avoided path: Staying still and recouping.

Trap encounters: Poison frogs & plants. 

Terrain features: Waterfalls, tiered swamps, Rivers, 

A conservative estimate puts the repairs of the ship at two weeks.

A cacaphony of calls is omnipresent in Drakenhearth, The air is humid and hot. 

Visible from where the ships land are lights, a mountain. and dense jungle
Remember the Mountain light. 


Food: 	Giant Beetles (fof)
		Boalisks(fof)
		Monstrous Crayfish (fof)
		Quipper and other fish
		Papaya, tamarind, wild (and thus shitty) banana, Taro, and various vegetables.

Random Encounter at Sea is a Shipbreaker sea serpent.

Random encounters in the jungle:
D6(Person) D6 (chart), D12 (extra difficult encounter on 11-12), D4 (trap squares number)

Slaad Patrol 


Jungle creature
	Greater Death Butterfly swarm (x2) (tob)
	Titanboa (tob)
	Zmey (tob)
	
	Assassin Bug (fof)
Jungle Creature pack
 7x serpopards (tob)
 11x Chupacabra (fof)
 5x troll 
  15 dipsa (tob)
Swamp creature
	Lake Troll
	Algoid (fof) 
	Hydra
	Dragon Eel (tob)
	
Swamp creature pack
	11xGiant Catfish (fof)
	9x Amphitere (tob)
	3x bukavac (tob)
	5x troll 
	
Automaton


1) Slaad Hermit's Hut. 
	Sitting in the fork of two large rivers,is a small platform on stilts on the edge of a sandstone precipice. up the steps to the platform hobbles a large, green froglike humanoid. It is hunched and leans heavily on its staff. It is a green slaad. It stares at you as you near. It then hobbles back down the path as you draw close, off into the swamp. He is heads into his hut, only to emerge a moment later with a snake. In the snake's mouth is a tiny patch of paper. It takes off flying into the sky on tiny wings.
	Behind the huts are tall 'trees' coated in nets. The Leaves seem to shiver as you near, only for them to be revealed as flying snakes as they all take off at once. 
	If you talk to him he tells you of
		The Land itself and Identifies the major features.
		The King of the bullywugs and his tyranny and control of the otherwise peaceful slaad
		He tells of the slaad spawning stone 
		He tells of the Evil Automatons that hail from the northwest.
		If prodded he mentions the Dragon to the south
		
2) The First Forgotten town.
	The ships run ashore near this town. While not very visible during the day, it is very visible at night. A short bushwack brings you to a series of small huts, bridges over water, bridges under shallow water, and carved out trees.
	Inside you find random trade goods, many things left untouched, and a lot of brown splatters along the walls. An investigation check reveals it to be blood. The water is filled with fish.

3) The second Abandoned town. 
	Identical to the first except that it contains a Black Dragon Clutch Of one ancient, Five wyrmlings, and a hoard. The Dragon's name is Vulthormenthawavaethenog
	
4) A Town on top of a ridge, it appears to be inhabited and the townsfolk working constantly on something.
	They are slaad being taskmasters over a large variety of warforged. 
	They are building something made of Wood, Glass and Magic. 
	There are places to hide in the town but if detected the slaad will hunt the party mercilessly. 
	
	The Town is made of lean-tos made to house the materials for the amplifier. The amplifier will be done in one month (30 days) at which point it will cover a large portion of the continent. Many of the materials are fragile or flammable or sensitive.
	
5) The Prison camps.
	Filled with humanoids of many species. They are guarded heavily by slaad, batches of them are taken out to the palace weekly, they don't usually return.
		Each floor is a slightly larger circle until the 4th, after which it gets progressively smaller. 
		3 camps in total
		The area around the camps is cleared and the only form of cover comes from the large roots that support the tree. 
		on Each area, there is a green slaad that prepares Thunderwave a turn in advance. If they successfully get it off, it summons more slaad to the area. Each section of the slave camp has a long rope leading to a single well, and a second long rope leading to a platform that goes to the bottom. The platform is covered in blood and surrounded by bones.
	
6) A mountain.
	 The highest point in the region south of the desert cliffs. It is an exhausting climb but halfway up the air cools and the vegetation stops. Every night, provided the conditions are right, if the party looks at the mountain, they see a red light flash in their direction, dimming, occasionally going out. It is the Warrior Automaton, Searching. From the top of the mountain you can see the entire map and distinguish many of the features on it.
	   
	 
7) Swamp gills Village
	A yet extanwt bullywug settlement. They are wary of outsiders and refuse to offer hospitality except things that will get the party to leave faster.
		Horarararak the old
			their most respected member, and one of the most insistent that the party leave, he offers explanation but not much
		
		Herrirrirri
			A female bullywug, not disimilar from frog who offers to be a guide if the party can provide protection, providing an auto success on the 
			
		Muuuuuaaak 
			A warrior who will attack them if they come to the village a second time. He weilds a halberd made of blue slaad hooks

8) The Dragon Citadel
		Inhabited by an Ancient Green Dragon named Hokoron, The Mirror of Deception((whoops, anger)). She has a large horde and holds many humanoids and bullywugs as her slaves, claiming to save them the scourge of the Slaadi as well as from these Metal Men of the prison of the killer. This is her land, after all, by right of might. 
			Hokoron Offers the players a reward that will help safeguard them from the slaadi if they complete a quest, Gathering a staff from the Long lake to the north west. 
			
			The slaves mutter discontent at their predicament but Hokoron Tells them they are free to leave at any time.
			
			Some of the bullywugs have elevated positions above the others, and they will fight those who oppose the dragon
			
9) The Third Deserted town. 
		The town bears the standard of Manaharamu on many of its derelict wooden buildings. The center of the town is over a deep vent that spews hot steam upward. Over the pit is a flat windmill with large sheets of Shimmering red fabric in triangular sails to catch the wind. They are clearly magical. If the party takes them, They can fashion sails for the Highwater that allow them to travel at full speed in light wind, and at half speed even if there is no wind at all. The town also contains a map mimic (tob)
		
10) The long lake
		A glass Scar in the land, surrounded by jagged spikes of previously molten rock. At one end there is a town (16) and at the other end, a Singular angled pillar. 
		It is filled with foul leeches, Strangleweed (fof), and lithonnite (fof) 
		Halway through the party is attacked by a Lake troll (Tob)
		At the end of the pillar is a Legendary staff (Lithosaad)
		
11) The Waterfall Temple
		A secret Village lies behind the waterfall, but is hard to enter. The group can find food, rest, safety, and information they need there. The populus are all Lizardfolk. In behind the town is a Temple the sky serpents, in all their forms. It holds a font of Blessing. Drinking from this font allows a character to recieve tutelage from their god, or so the story goes. upon inspection, the font is Green Dragon Poison, Probably milked from Hokoron herself when she was a wyrmling. For Krelthar, if he drinks, for an hour he is blinded with pain, He takes two levels of Exhaustion, 12d6 Damage, and can't walk as two large, leathery wings sprout from his back, fly speed, 35. The wings are Cramped in his armor and cannot operate within it. They fold up fairly tight to his body but would be obvious is he is wearing clothes. The lizardfolk do not have the means to fix his armor, but they can supply him with Coatl Scale Armor, which works as Dragon Scale, but is far more colourful
		
12)  The Bullywug King's palace, it is Surrounded by Slaad
		If the party goes here early, they are captured, less frog, and sent to the prison camps
		As the party enters they are accosted by other bullywugs who attempt to grab frog and bring her forward in an attempt to curry favor
		The halls speak of Khalidorian Architecture, With Solid Vaulted stonework with no sign of seam or mortar. The Walls are white, and deep fuschia drapes embriodered with gold knots hang from the ceiling. 
		The floors are stained blocks wood of different colors, organized in the effect of waves flowing outward, as light transitions to dark slowly, then immediately back to the lightest shade. 
		Wide Windows are segmented by Living wood, grown to hold the glass in place, 
		
		The path to the Bullywug king is a winding path with Slaad Guards at every turn
		
		
13) The Ancient Aqueduct
		A Cavernous river that serves as an underground enterance to the crater
		
		
		
		
14) Immortal's Pass
		The passage to The desert
		
15) The Impass Spring 
		Leads to the underdark, Source of the Major rivers, combined with the rain that falls against the cliffs.
		
		
16) The Fourth Empty Town 
		Built on the end of The Long Lake (10), this bullywug village is different from the others in that it remains steadfastly on dry land. Some abberation lies in wait there, but the city is otherwise safe 
		
17) An inconspicuous lake
	Got a shipeater in it though. Don't fuck up
	
18) Mythic Dragon Corpse
		The Bones of this dragon are larger than any creature you have ever seen, save the Terrasque. 
		Inside it is the fifth lost bullywug town. 
		The town is built on a longer yet smaller spine that's in the marsh. Another Set of jaws bound the neck of the dragon
		
19) Dragontree (tob)

20) The Citadel from the world of the Killer
		a large and imposing tower of shining white stone.
		this is the homebase of the Hieger-Class automatons
		They are of the world Panopticon, and are Lawful creatures made to maintain the machinations of a dying race. They are ultimately opposed to the slaad and protective of living creatures that show intelligence. they do not speak but they can all write with minor illusion. They are cunning and capable of planning but are hesitant to communicate when they can get what they want on their own
		
21) The Spawning Stone and Slaad Hive
		Surprisingly quiet, This is where the slaad that are not needed rest in deep uninterruptible slumber
 		
22) A massacred Human village

23) A secret Encounter with the Danae, Llio, who, if one is able to dance with him, can transport you to anywhere in the jungle. One time.

24) Temple of the Sky serpents
		Lawful Good Uraeus and Coatl both nest here, sleeping. They will offer assistance to you to end the slaad threat. After all, they knew you would come
		
		
		
Key points. 

The Other Automatons try to retrieve frog whenever possible and bring her back to the Citadel

The Slaad are restless but give up if they lose sight of their victim unless under order from the command stone after ten minutes, They also try to retrieve frog.

The king is insane and will seal frog up to "protect" her, he then continues building a slaad army

The construct in 4 is an amplifier, extending the range of the control stone. Spanning the lower half of the continent

The Slaad hermit wants to destroy or obtain the control stone, the death of the king and the party are part of that goal. He only appears helpful.

The Control stone does not affect frog fully, but she has disadvantage against the holder.


Cosades is the only person in the party with the magical accumen to Wield Lithosaad 

The Dragon is terribly evil and will steal the stone if necessary

The Coatl are good and if met before the final battle or before fighting the dragon, they will fight the dragon as well as the slaad.

Cosades can fly. Remember that. 

If the King is killed, the hermit attempts to shatter the control stone.

If the invasion is subdued, Hokoron attacks

The control stone does not give the King finite control of the slaad, or he is not intelligent enough to figure it out.



NPCs
	Hokoron The Mirror of Anger
		base:Is deceitful but smart
		 rule: Will not tolerate theft
		 Rule:Will tolerate rudeness temporarily
		 Motive: Wants to rule Drakenhearth
		 Flaw: Enjoys Decadent pleasures
		 Trait: Her Upper frill is pierced with seven gold rings
		
	Erikerak the giant, King of the Bullywugs
		Base:Prideful, slow-speaking, quick to anger
		 Will turn the party into slaves if they are captured.
		 Will not listen to friendly advice
		Trait: Huge
		Motive: To become lord of all, after recovering his most important heir
		Flaw: Prone to rage
		
		
	
		
	The Hermit Green slaad
		Base: Speaks infrequently
		Will aid the party as much as he can in defeating the King of the bullywugs
		Goal: Wants to restart the slaad invasion but will not mention this 
		Trait: He has a large hole in his head in which a spider nests.
		Flaw: Has a powerful enemy
		
	Irieger, Pest Control Construct																						
		Will kill things to save frog
		Mage-class
	
	Twieger, Retriever Construct
		Advanced Rogue
		Will attempt to retrieve frog in the night
		Runs immediately if spotted
			
	Hieger, Shepherd Construct
		Attempt to herd the party around Objectives to "safe zones" 
		It attacks with arrows made of whatever it can find if they attempt to leave.
		It will constantly follow its sheep.
	
	Laurjar	Countermagic Construct
		Will stabilize failing magical items instinctively
		Will target slaad stones on sight
		Magical items that attmpt to discharge on Laurjar cannot be used again for a day.
		Will perform blood transfusions on anyone who has been struck with any magical disease or parasite 
		Resists magic and advantage on spell saves
	
	Aciuamatotl
		The largest, oldest coatl, The one that speaks
		Sleepy, will only act on sure things. 
		speaks well of the automatons.
		A fear of water
		Wishes to destroy the Dragons Hokoron and Vulthormenthawavaethenog and thus become the ruling Sky-serpent.
		Has the stats of a White Dragon, 'cept with coatl abilities
		
		
		
	Marachus the leader of the prisoners
		a warforged with the goal of escaping the prison camps
		Will rat out the party if they attempt to escape without the other prisoners
		attempts to escape to the south, downriver7
		Green chest plates
		Arrogant
	
	Ego Jur the plant
		Elf
		Wants to escape
		Clumsy 
		Watery Eyes
	
		A Grey slaad Plant
		Acts predictably but subtly 
		Doesn't trust automatons, Urges players to ambush points
		Talks telepathically to other slaad
		  Aeloh aie amm IIgo JUr
	
	Frans "Kokoya" Delahunty 
		Female Gnomish Pirate (bandit)
		Stoic, Silent, 
		Wants Escape 
		Doesn't trust Tibeaux or Krelthar
		Will Accompany the part in escapes. Dependable.
		
	Vulthormenthawavaethenog - black dragon, banished by Zog Earthshaka
