Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-06-07T18:57:38-02:30

====== .More_Locations ======
Created Thursday 07 June 2018



Bazaars
	16) Colli Market
			 Out Midwest, a section of þe town devoted to brick-and-mortar stores, established businesses
			
	17) Shinka Park
			Out upper norþeast, Temporary vendor stalls, a good place to find items þat would normally be uncommon
	18) souþport
			Out Low souþ Shipyard, Usually where you'll find þe most ships. Some Captains sell wares from þeir ships þemselves
	19) Norþport
			Ships and Caravans from Þe norþ togeþer.
	20) Remesari Circus 
	
			In midsouþ, Built into þe rocks þemselves and well inside what used to be þe mountain, Permanent open vendor stalls, accessible from multiple vomitoria
  Ports
	21) Norþport, 
			Ships and Caravans for trade, Hosts þe Scenic view from þe tallest non-magical bridge in þe world, þe Nodnol Causeway. 
				Norþport faces þe tiger cliffs, a strip of white wiþ large Diagonal Black Strips. Þe smell of seaweed is strong here. Extending high above even þe tallest ship is þe Nodnol causeway, which reaches toward land and þe counterport where caravans check in.
			
	22) Souþport, 
			Ships þat are passing þrough.
				Well Worn Stone quays reaching well out into þe bay to form an artificial port announce Souþport as þe first check-in to Grand Tortuga. Many of þe ships here are obviously pirate ships, many outfitted with their own mad rigging. Enforcers crawl along þe dock, making sure no one causes trouble, the air is very salty here
		
	23) Eastport,
			Ships dropping by from þe east þat will head east again
				A smaller Wharf jutting not too far off of the shore shepherds ships into a natural harbor formed in part by  medium-sized river flowing out from a large pipe. þe area is very smelly
	24) Westport,
			Ships Dropping by from þe west þat are heading west again
				A stylized set of floating piers, much larger þan Eastport, near the base of the dock is a large gate, on either side of which Sit a Storm giant Woman and Similarly Sized Dragon-winged woman with Six Eyes.  They Constantly seem to be playing a game which cannot be seen from below. From above it is revealed to be an appropriately sized game of Reversi.
	25) Top Port
		Airship dock, The Highest building in town, only one is at the dock currently. It is an airy and windy place, and made of a simple flat platform and a single shack, where the harbormaster waits for incoming and outgoing ships to check in
	26) Underport 
			Gate to þe Underdark, a large cavern þat can be access via channel in Eastport, only certain types of ships can make it into þe lochs, mostly smaller Galleys. Steam rises from the glassy water constantly and the quiet hum of the power generators is all that can be heard down here once the lochs are closed.  Acer, the lich, stares unmovingly into the long cave constantly. 
  Factories
	
	27) Water Stills
			Run by Murky, Þese Desalinate þe seawater wiþ solar power and an enchanted standing pool. Þis is þe most important source of þe Island's water 
	28) Souþport fishplant
			Many ships drop off a catch on þe way to souþport for a flat fee, it gets processed here and sold to all of þe restaurants, eateries, and many of þe citizens of þe island.
	29) Decidente Bakery and Confection
			Margot Decidente doesn't want to be a pirate, so she bakes goods, bakes good, and bakes baking goods good, While baked good. 
			
	30) Horton Magicworks
			Þe Horton Trading network decided it would be a good idea to hire some mages out of Manaharamu to work in an Artificery. Þis was þe cheapest property þey could get
	31) Stoneworks
		
		A yard in þe norþwest for crafting moguls, Also where þe Rockwallers keep þeir wares and private dock. 
  Companies & Headquarters
	
	Trading companies 	
		32) Svilsbo Trading
				Fish
				Livestock
				Spices
				Fruits and Vegetables
				Wines, Spirits, 
		33)	Iyrelm Trading
				Wood
				Stone
				Cloþ, Silk, Cotton
				Metal
		34)	Horton Trading
				Machinery
				Tools
				Art
				Jewelry
				Dress
	
	Special Services
		35) Dredgers
				-keeps þe ports clear and þe Moguls maintained
		36) Þe Works
				-Keep þe sewage, power, and water flowing around Grand Tortuga
			
		37) Þe Tidal Power Plant
			souþ
		38) Þe Geoþermal Power Plant
			in low norþ
			
			
		39) Bertold's Body Shop (assassinations)
				midwest
		40) Egbarn's Inhumation services (Assassination and funerary)
				Mideast
		41) Hearne's Delivery Services (Assassinations, Þugs, and extortionists)
				Low souþwest
		42) Skippers' (Messengers)
			Þese are often young children who haven't gotten to hate eachoþer yet, þey run messages around town for a silver. 
		
		
	Oþer Locations
	
		52) Moþer Wuþer's Sensual Oþers - Jaquy 
				a Broþel, o'midwest, Largely Female Workers
		
		53) Helheim's þralls - Avisen 
				Sex slave trade. One can buy people here outright. All kinds all races i'lownorth (slightwest)
			
		54) Þe Shivering Spine - Furi
				A very Large broþel filled wiþ all manner of races, drugs, and oþer entertainment. It is a decadent place
				
		55) Yili's Fill - Bruchev 
				Half grown women, Half Danzuishanese Fuccbois, 

		56) Bal'Jasar Slaves
				Slave trade, low north (slighteast)
	
		57) Court of the Pirate Kings.
			The Home of the Dead Man's Chest, a box sealed under incredibly heavy security both physical and magical, with powerful and quick to communicate representatives from every family on constant 	vigil. Around the Chest's home pit is a large Glass wall and an Adamantine table that's been long bolted to the floor. Some of the places have chairs, each different, some made of stone, others of wood, all securely bolted down, save the empty places. It is revealed that some people take their chairs with them on their way out. 


	Special items
		Sailor's Ration - Like a ration, but upon eating, grants advantage on checks to swim for 3 hours
		
		Fisher's Baccy - Tobacco that, upon being smoked allows one to reduce forced movement by 5ft for 1 hour. 
			5sp/dose, comes in packs of 10+ for 47 silver
			Don't overdose
		Coffee
			An energy drink that can, for four hours, relieve one level of exhaustion. One gold for enough to brew one gallon.
		
	Market Magic Items
		All common Items in PDF
		
		Eternal chaulk, 360gp, 
			Never breaks or wears down with normal use, any writing cannot be erased for one week except by the original artist or author
		Restful bedroll or Blanket 360gp
			When you finish sleeping in this bedroll or under this blanket during a long rest, gain 1d8 temporary hit points that last until your next rest.
