Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-06-07T18:37:43-02:30

====== Fugin ======
Created Thursday 07 June 2018

Fugin
	Leaders
		Aik'no Fugin (barbarian) ESTP
			A Shrewd brute of a woman, A Half-Elf. She has short blonde hair, skin þe same color and stands at 5'11. She is a Heavy-handed Admiral, and wears a Vest and Kilt. She wields a Falchion (greataxe). She Also wears a Belt of Giant Kind, Uses a Flame Tongue Sword, and a Mantle of spell resistance
				bombastic language AIK!NO! FU-GIN I DO NOT! APPRECIATE-THIS
					
		Bregart Fugin (cleric,tempest) ISFJ
			Melora's Faithful. A calm, pious, and sweet man. He is generous, an adept gardener and sailor, and a zealous murderer in the service of his god. He is often at the end of the nodnol causeway, ready to greet caravans. he wears a ragged black cleric's robe, sandles, and a morningstar in the shape of a Sun with a scowling face.
			
	Important members
		Thanderal Opucci ESFP
			A slightly deranged, neurotically happy pixie who manges the Fugin's Mad zoo. While not much of a threat herself, She has powerful charms and is known to show up in front of an adversary without warning with some nasty beast to attack them. She is Viciously sexual but also tiny
				Appears with one of the following
					Black pudding
					purple worm
					Nilbolg
					10 Rust monsters
					Froghemoth
					Jar of Rot grubs
					remorhaz
					Neothelid
					
		Imgi Gigralo INTP
			A Human chemist from the university of Manaharamu. He's the one who figured out the secret of Galvanized rubber. Before then the fugin had been barely holding onto their place in Grand tortuga. He is 66 and a veteran of the Manaharamu-Konia war. He has dark skin, a scar over his right eye and white straight hair. His voice is scratchy and deep.
			
		
		Raker Newgrad ESFP
			A Rugged square of an Elf, and a bombastic party animal. He wears Dragonscale armor constantly. He always tries to solve his problems nonviolently but trouble seems to follow him. He is a warlock with the pact of the hexblade and he is bound to a quarterstaff (that functions as a greatsword because why not) which demands the right to defend him from physical harm. The Fugin use him in negotiations, knowing that he'll say the right thing and if shit hits the fan, people are going to end up losing their souls. 
			
	Fugin Compound (1)
		Built into a wall high north. It is a warded dungeon that remains empty for most of the day. The fugin use it as a stronghold but not for much.
		
