Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-06-07T18:43:13-02:30

====== Jaquy ======
Created Thursday 07 June 2018

Jaquy ship
	
	Leader
		Memory Jaquy (rogue)
			A Gnome who has shifty eyes. He is full-grown and stands at 3'7. He wears wristbands and big-sleeved shirt, and a þick cloak. His hands are never far away from his short sword. His hair is red but shaved close to his head. Gloves of thievery
	
	
		Meliarch Vilyahelma
			A high-Level Wizard who deals Quietly With threats to the Jaquy
	
	Important Members
		
		Cana Dawnjewels
			A dwarf who doesn't speak. Doesn't communicate at all except by pointing and moving paper around. Anything that she places in front of someone is almost certainly worth looking at. (Dm's Note. Cana is autistic and distinctly nonverbal. She will continue to attempt to work regardless of what people say to her and she has a very structured routine that the jaquy have learned to espouse)
		
		Mystery Jaquy 
			A gnome with powerful synesthesia, who can spot mathematical inconsistencies without even actually reading paper. She is also capable of seeing invisibility and through illusions in perpetuity.
			
		Smuntsu Sinfulnumber, The Devil of Clarity
			A slender Pit Fiend who works tirelessly, but for good pay.
			
	Jaquy offices
		It is sometimes hard to remember that the Jaquy are pirates, gangsters, and mercenaries. Their office and compound is a swathe of land low northwest, composed of 5 square towers linked by corridors. They are not very tall but each one has a mounted stormpiercer. Inside each of the towers is a division of work devoted to specific forms of fraud correction, tracking, and reporting. The corridors also house the rooms for the common crew, while the central tower contains the higher ranking members. 
		
	Jaquy notes
		It is difficult to realize that all of Grand Tortuga's Economy is effectively managed by the Jaquy. This crew has made a living out of tracking who got screwed and where. They have expert diviners, scriveners, and "ears" who spy around town. They are almost Identical to the DurFisher in how they operate, except instead of blackmail, they just make sure no one is looking at *them*. Like fertilizer, they have been so beneficial to the function of Grand Tortuga that the other crews Tend to overlook their Actions entirely. But they are still pirates. Their ruthlessly effective enforcers will crack down on any lies 
