Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-06-07T18:46:57-02:30

====== Rockwaller ======
Created Thursday 07 June 2018

Rockwaller
	Leaders
		Quenchen Rockwaller (fighter) ENTJ
			A human wiþ a perpetual frown. He is 5'6, has short light brown hair wiþ a rat-tail, and tallow skin. he wears a light shirt and has a Cutlass (of speed). Winged boots, and an amulet of health. He is a master Fencer
				French accent, Iyrelm french
			
		Captain Vicira Tipigica (ranger, beastmaster) ISTJ
			A dwarf who captains the rockwaller flagship "Carpathes", He weilds a ballista as if it were a crossbow and is bonded to a Giant shark
			
	Important People
		Cariliga INTJ
			A Halfling artificer who ultimately is the only one to know how to make or find floating stone. His notes are heavily encoded. He wears a colorful smock and has his hair done in cornrows. He has been serving the rockwallers for over 300 years in secret. Only speaks dwarvish
			
		Marini Lerbutt (INTP)
			 A Half-elf historian who is far more adept at listening than talking. He is an excellent martial artist (kensei,spear) and the main diplomat for the Rockwallers. He's also extremely loyal
			 
		Luraliea nuitblanc (ENTP)
			A cheerful and dangerously clever human wild mage. Magic seems to twist itself around her, and for good reason. She has an intuitive grasp of magical theory that surpasses most wizards. She holds the rockwaller's bailout key. Sometimes forgets to eat
			
	Location (2) 
		Ostensibly, the Rockwaller main headquarters is in northport. It is an unassuming collection of offices that has survived destruction no less that 48 times. In reality, the Rockwallers discovered the location of the DurFisher Floating Island, and built their fortress on the underside of it. it is composed of Glass that keeps a view on the island from far above.
		
Rockwallers
	Hate/By:
		Hatain - Þreatened by Kholira via
			Hate/By:
				Rockwaller - Þreaten wiþ Kholira 
				Fugin - Kholirahi ships interfere wiþ routes 
				Bruchev - Kholirahi ships interfere wiþ routes
			Ally:
				Kveter-Klas - Trade
				Murtuck - Trade 
				Avisen - Mediate DurFisher 
			
			Coerce:
				Decidente  - Owed Money
				Rockwaller - Þreaten wiþ Kholira 
			Coerced by:
				
				Fugin - Kholirahi ships interfere wiþ routes 
				DurFisher - blackmail 
			
			Keys:
				Powerfully Connected wiþ Kholira,
		Barry - Will not Give þe Floating Stone Secret
			Hate/By:
				Furi - Interplanar Trade war
				Rockwallers - Gouge for floating stone 
				
			Ally:
				MacLeodquin - Mediate between Rockwallers 
				Bal'Jasar - Good deals, Moneychanging 
				Stockwoods - Good in Talks 
			Coerce:
				Rockwaller - Þhreaten wiþ monster
				DurFisher - Hostages 
			Coerced by:
				Rockwaller - By þe balls for floating stone
				Furi - Þhreaten Terrestrial trade routes 
			Keys:
				Giþyanki Astral Pirates, Harbor an abberation from þe far realm
				
				
	Ally
		Bal'Jasar
			Hate/By:
				Jaquy - Frequently Foiled by 
				Fugin - High Rate Insurance plan 
				
			Ally:
				Barry - Good deals, Moneychanging
				Rockwaller - has been bailed out by
				Bruchev - good Customers, Even Trade, good in talks 
			
			Coerce:
				Fugin - High Rates 
				DurFisher - Blackmail 
				
			Coerced by:
				DurFisher - Þeft 
				Murtuck - Blackmail 
				Jaquy - Blackmail 
			Keys:
				Insurance policies - Enforced ones
		
		Jaquy/Tibeaux
			Motives unknown
			
		MacLeodquin
			Hate/By:
				DurFisher - Frequently þwart
				Decidente - Stormpiercer is Manaharamu tech þat þe MacLeodquin don't have
			Ally:
				Avisen - Protection for Tech 
				Barry - Mediator /Trade 
				Rockwaller - Mediator /Trade
			Coerce:
				Kveter-Klas - by þe balls for Tech 
				Decidente - pressure via avisen 
				
			Coerced by:
				Murtuk - blackmailed by
				Fugin - Þreaten routes via furi
			Keys:
				Powerfully connected to Manaharamu, gets þe best gadgets
				
	Coerce
			Barry - By þe balls for floating stone
			Kveter-Klas - Hostages
			Fugin - Blackmail
			
	Coerced by:
			Barry - Þreatened by Monster
			Furi - Blackmail
			Hatain - Þreatened via Kholira
			
			
	Secret of Floating Stone
	
	
