Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-06-19T16:26:38-02:30

====== Deep_Citadel ======
Created Tuesday 19 June 2018

The deep Citadel was the exit point for the Dragonborn who first joined the surface in the year 983, It was a powerful waterfall and it was only powerful magic that let them emerge. Some say it was Bahamut himself that did it, others, that it was a bard, whose drum stopped the river for a day. In that day, the nine clans, each united under their own leader, fought their own war, a war that lasted for over a thousand years. The Valley of Danzuishan was known as the valley of ancient breath, where the powers of those warring dragonborn all made the area unlivable. Mostly unlivable. A white dragonborn, Corryn Of Shan, swam to the bottom of the river, every day, Carrying fish he'd caught upstream and meat he had caught. Seven days at a time he'd hunt, after which he'd pass out from exhaustion. He'd dive to the bottom of the river and bring food to those waiting on the other side, those who couldn't swim out. Those that were born and became strong eventually left and simply joined the fighting they were trying to stop. Corryn died at the northernmost tributary of the Gannaga, where he was found by wandering dwarves. Their clerics spoke to his spirit and learned his story in short words. "My family waits under the waterfall, My brothers have warred for the thirty years that we have been free. Let them all see the sun rise." Moved by sheer poetry of his soul's will, the dwarves move out through the caves, and set across the underdark, Cresting the edge of the underground sea and finding the remainder of the dragonborn. They built the deep citadel, a military outpost of skalmirthon at first, and made its flooded entrance burst forth from the waters, they built the locks quickly, and built their own trade outpost on the Gannaga. But the war of the dragonborn was fierce. Like all before them, the new dragonborn joined to fight, and the chaos drove the dwarves away. Each clan settled on one of the nine locks. Shan, the weakest, settled in the middle, but had the opportunity to retreat into the deep citadel when times got hard. This Dysfunction is mirrored in Grand Tortuga. All clans benefitted from the locks being kept working, despite threats against them. The things that worked stayed and a pseudo-alliance emerged that eventually became functional and then, law. The clan war faded into bureaucratic disputes and eventually into nothing. This stronghold is a testament to that struggle.

The Citadel is of dwarven make, each wall lined with descriptions of the war and the story of Corryn carved on dark Obsidian, it is very hard to see without direct hard light. It is well stocked and ornately furnished, though it has no windows. Parliment meets down here, a system of lords presiding over the lawmaking. They meet in what was once the dining hall, surrounded by statues of dragonborn (later additions, replacing the ones of dwarves) to discuss matters of law and power. 

The last bastion of the old fighting is the Shan throne, Upon which Keemuitsi O'Danzuishan, The Queen, sits and presides over parliment. Her position is arguably symbolic but legally, her power is absolute. She is 89 years old but her mind remains sharp.


