Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-08-13T12:12:21-02:30

====== Causeway ======
Created Monday 13 August 2018

At the far end of the west wood is Causeway, the remains of an attempted bridge to the next island over. At the terminal end is an abandonded workers camp, while the incomplete end is just a testament to a thing that could have been if the world weren't so cruel. A spirit Naga, Brontocorna Dolefilis, plots against the world there. Dolefilis Commands a small cult of [fey] warlocks, devoted to the serpent. The cult, isolated and undisturbed is preparing a foul ritual to enslave the minds of the dwarves in the not-particularly-close city of skalmirthon. They have set up a small village around which they have set up many magical traps that only the cultists know how to navigate. Dolefilis themselves guides the engraving of the magical circle, which has taken ten years to get to this stage.


1) Blighted wood
	This blighted forest functions as a druid grove. Several of the trees (10%) are animate and aggressive, doing 1d6 damage with +3 to hit. The forest is clouded by magical fog which can be blown away by a source of non-natural wind (such as the cantrip gust, any similar spell, or if the players are particularly patient, a giant fan). The Area requires a DC 15 survival (Wisdom) check to navigate if the fog is cleared and DC 20 if it is not, on a failure, the party is lost for three hours. The Canopy of the forest is 50ft tall, but impossible to navigate particularly high up due to the distance between the conical trees. 
2) Stone wall
	This stone wall is 10ft high and topped with spikes. The spikes act as a magical conduit. If a creature touches a spike, the fence casts witch bolt with +4 to hit and maintains the spell as long as the creature is within range
3) Cult Village
	The Cultists live in a stone village that used to house the workers who were building the bridge. The cult's home functions as a normal town woul but with everyone wearing cult robes which are Green and bound with a blue sash. Each cultist also wears a mask which is unique to them.
4) Unfinished bridge
	This is where Dolefilis is performing the ritual, overseeing the intricate symbols night and day
