Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-08-17T22:19:30-02:30

====== Fallen_Graoton ======
Created Friday 17 August 2018

Fallen Graoton is the remnant of the Graoton Kingdom which stood on this island in the year 2612 up until its fall in 5373, 2761 years after its foundation. The Graotonese were a well-developed people who relied on their Martial arts which they mixed with magic. Their knights used lances, halberds, and tridents alongside their magic, such as Sanctuary,  from the backs of Specially bred giant goats to attack and ward off the monsters that roamed the wilds. Graoton was a slowly expanding country, a proper country, with taxed and guarded territories. Their military prowess and political strength was what made their sudden disappearance all the more drastic. Now the city stands and remains suspiciously empty.

The Graotonay were humans, but their skin was much darker than their Konian Counterparts. Their thicker hair was often styled in dreadlocks, cut short for the warriors. One can spot one of the Graotonay's Descendants and tell them apart from other Dark-skinned humans by the naturally reflective Silver Spots under their eyes that turn Gold as they age. The University has not been able to examine what causes this yet, as they are rare, even among Manaharamu's extreme ethnic diversity.



For setting, It is recommended that entering this area takes place in mid-afternoon sunny, moving into stark shadows when the players reach the first wall, and moving into overcast and twillight when the players reach second, after they clear second, the light gets too dim and Darkvision and lanterns are required.

1) Outer Farms
	Naught really remains of the farms of Graoton, a scattered farmhouse foundation in a dense pine forest, a few feral trees like blackthorn and apple (wild apples, which also have thorns), and the remnants of their dry stone walls that guarded their farms from the smaller invaders. Though it is not entirely abandoned. The soil, made rich by millenia of care, has become host to hulking trees, many of which are now host to dryads. The dryads are not Evil, but their actions might be harmful to wayward wanderers. When the dryads notice someone moving toward Graoton, They charm them to turn them away or try to hide them in trees from the horrors that dwell beyond the farms, few survive such protection. The waters that flow out of Graoton and through these farmlands are all fouled, and undrinkable.
	
2)First wall & bailey
	The greater part of the Graotonese people lived here, inside the first wall. A ten-meter tall fortification along which a rampart once ran. Within, Tall stone buildings housed many families at once. The buildings were packed densely together. Graoton never had to endure an actual seige for very long as their knights often broke seige formations quickly, paying close attention to seige equipment. Because of this, the buildings extend far up above the wall, and cast stark shadows on the streets below. The streets themselves are now quiet, and while effectively looted, show  signs of recent inhabitation. Though the creatures that dwell here are not exactly friendly humanoids.  Nothics prey on casters in particular, knocking them unconscious and dragging them away to peel their secrets from their mind. Perytons lurk on the edges of the city to scoop up and eat any humanoid that they spot, though it is not so easy. The primrary Inhabitants of this part of Graoton are ogres who are unable to take reactions but are more than happy to swing their brutish weapons at any intruder. These Ogres are followed and helped by a single drider who refuses to speak. 
	
3) Second wall
	A red Guard drake immediately harries anyone who enters this area from the first wall. It attempts to chase them, and failing that, lure them, into the waiting arms of a Death knight ambush. The Death Knight stands in the middle of an area that holds a ruined fountain. He wears plate After his first turn, Two wights  enter behind the party in the company of a second Death Knight, whose armor is felted yellow. The Death knights are wearing plate and Carry shields in the shape of Bindweed leaves. Both Death knights are 6'0, and their plate armor should suit most creatures of similar size with a strength of 20 down to 15. Every round that any one of these creatures is alive, at Initiative 20, a skeleton enters combat, armed with a spear in two hands. There are skeletons in almost every room in the second area, but with them there are many noteworthy items. Scale barding for a war horse sits in one low building, and in a small guard outpost, a lantern of revealing sits on a small table, gleaming untarnished copper. Players can also find a Staff of Thunder and Lightning, A vicious lance, and a wand of secrets. 
	
4) Inner Ward
	The Castle proper's last wall is covered in thick vines that cling relentlessly to the stones. Inside the last bastion is the castle proper. A displacer beast prowls the ground and hidden in one of the covered ramparts an enchanter (volo's) wearing a Cloak of Arachnida  waits to support it.  The door inward is thick wood, coated in a mesh of iron langets and it opens inward.  Mounted on the wall of one of the towers is a rapier of true stepping (Nirrum's)
5) Castle proper 
	1.Foyer
		The Foyer is surprisingly empty, only two suits of armor stand  still on either side, each next to a door. The floor is brown marble surrounded by a yellow mosaic. The walls, once coated in stained panel wood, are falling apart, revealing common stone underneath. A staircase leads up and forward, two doors lead to rooms on either side of the staircase, and two hallways leading left and right immediately of the door.
	a. The left hallway leads to the east Tower and Terrace. On the terrace a harpy lurks, overlooking the forest for something to kill. she can be surprised. In the tower there is a potion of heroism sitting on top of a pile of furs which are dried and not very pliable
	b. the right hallway leads to the west staircase and a conservatory 
		1. In the conservatory, the plants are all dead, leaving only a rusted metal framework and a single gnarled tree that seems to have survived. When the players enter the conservatory, a wooden portcullis (Ac13, 20 health) drops down and locks in. Three werewolves emerge from the tree. Each with a different color fur. The Black one Climbs the tree and fires arrows at the people below, targetting mages. The Pink one attacks with a Maul and adds an additional +3 to its damage, it has resistance to physical damage(B/P/S). The Gold one has resistance to all non physical damage (![B/P/S]) and casts buffs the other two, using an action to grant one of them 1d8 to Damage rolls, and a bonus action to heal one of them 1d8hp. He keeps well hidden behind the tree and behind constructed barricades.
