Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-02-06T12:04:06-03:30

====== OldGrandTortuga ======
Created Thursday 06 February 2020

Grand Tortuga

DM's Notes:
	Consequences are harsh on Grand Tortuga, functionally everyone is a violent criminal. Locks are frequently trapped, People are suspicious. Because of this, and the nature of Humanity, Grand Tortuga has reached an equilibrium. Part of the point of this module is that because of this equilibrium, people have gotten complacent and lack goals. Most of the Leaders aren't even trying for the treasure at the heart of the island, really, a fact which is entirely and completely hidden from the players and should remain so, only becoming apparent as you go through the module. 
	
	When I ran through this module for the first time, one of the players ignored the main plot entirely and decided to take over the island. This lead the plot in a completely different direction then, as you will see, I had planned. I obliged, after all, a DM does not tell a story, they tell the news, and In the month and a half span of in game time that the players were in Grand Tortuga, It was an eventful newsweek, involving alliances and an absolute steamroll of the island's equilibrium by the simple nature that *none of the captains were actually prepared for 
	
	


Vignette
	The calls of gulls fill the air. You are all, for a moment, Dock workers.  You work on the eastport dock Of Grand Tortuga, the largest safe haven for Free Villainy on the plane. It smells a little funky, and the water is not water you want to swim in, as the sewage outlet is nearby. Describe yourselves briefly. Perception checks. Suddenly, a call Echoes out from the jungle. Dragons, large and small begin to crowd the sky, most of them green or black. They fly over the island, rushing, racing to...something.... or from something. One of them attacks another in the air above you, and the assailed dragon falls, and lands on your dock. The Stormpiercers are all being pointed up at the greater threats, no one seems to have noticed that A young blue dragon has crashed down already. But it has noticed you. 
Notes
	The players are all "Veterans" that have no weapons on hand other than dagger each. Around the dock though, there are better weapons, Including  boom hooks (halberd, piercing damage), Harpoons(Trident, but 1d8 Thrown) , Mauls, Boarding Axes (battle axes). They face a young blue dragon that has already had 50 damage done to it. After a few turns the dragon gets blown away by the beam of a storm piercer but coming from the east of the cove. There, rounding the point are two ships, covered in large bones, black paint, and red sails.
	
Intro
	The call of gulls fills the air as you approach port, quite distinctly *not*(pause for effect) several people fighting a young blue dragon but a different set of people having just blown one away with your fore-mounted stormpiercer. You are, as you know, the crew of the "Hell and High Water"  and her compatriot Ship "The Bloody Sister," both black with red sails, both covered in large bones and other unfortunates. Both Sailing underneath a red flag embroidered with a Black Cockatrice, the Colors Adopted by Captain Lazarus Honore Dorian Tibeaux, and raised first by a group known in hushed whispers as "The red mist" An enemy to the Konian Military, Escaped Khalidorian Slaves, Raiders of Dwarven Tombs, Plunderers of mines, and, if rumors are true, madfolk who sailed clean through Ganglegrove, and who Conquered the Tepet Ruins. You are, all, greeted with the sight of a large Conical Island, Framed against wispy clouds in the morning blue sky. The island is almost entirely covered with houses and buildings, stacked into the rock with little room between them, save where Zig-zag roads run up, and ring roads run round. From your angle, two wide docks are visible, The smaller, closer wharf where you dispatched the unfortunate Scaleback, and the larger, more southern wharf.  This, is Grand tortuga, Many of you have heard it is the largest safe haven for Free Villainy on the plane. As the dragons pass and the sky clears, a couple of stormpiercers focus on you, but they do not fire. The town seems to relax as you draw near. I, an observer fear, that relief is ill-placed. Begin. 
	
	
Run down to the plot section now.
	
History	
	Once a prosperous trading outpost, grand tortuga has been long overrun wiþ pirates, cutþroats, and unscrupulous traders for over a þousand years. While þere isn't a governing body, þere are groups and families þat one would do best to not cross. Þe city almost mirrors Kara'ite, as many orphans are taken up by þe more powerful groups to keep up þeir numbers. Turtle Culture is often friendly despite being reclusive. Visitors aren't welcome into homes, Bodies are never found, but bumping into someone in þe street is met wiþ smiles, 'excuse-me's, and apologies. Þe people live in perpetual politeness wiþ þe understanding þat þe arrogant are never seen again. Grand Tortuga hosts is own breeds of warrior, wiþ adept assassins, subtle mages, and creatively insane warlocks who have made pacts wiþ þe deep. Þe town is lined wiþ stormpiercers and modified versions þereof. Þe town understandably has þe finest fried seafood, as well as almost every trade good known to man. Þe Town is obviously not wiþout danger, quite þe opposite, a wrong step, a percieved þreat, or þe wrong word uttered can end wiþ disaster.

	The Pirate raids began when two crews began to fight over a chest that both laid claim to. They brought in their allies, called in favors and loaded up on weapons. Choosing to tell a bunch of other pirates that you found treasure might be seen as a bad idea in retrospect. Grand Tortuga has never been the same since.  The first was the Avisen, who buried the chest. The second were the Fugin who found it. The avisen brought in the Rockwallers and the Hatain. The Fugin followed up with the Jaquy and the Klas. The Klas brought in the Kveter. The Kveter brought in the Bal'Jasar. After 600 years had passed, the DurFisher Formed from the dregs of the island's denizens. The Rockwallers Called in a favour and brought in the Murtucks, Who were followed by the Decidente. The Decidente called in the Furi. After 1800 years since the beginning of the the fighting, the Bruchev show up. The last Two to join where the Barry who came by accident, and the stockwood twice. Once the barry came, the Kveter and Klas families merged, having been allies the entire time. The Stockwood host the youngest seat on the council, at 78 years present, That is, other than the Tibeaux who showed up two weeks ago and killed the Jaquy. The MacLeodquin are technically the oldest family on Grand Tortuga, having been the Original inhabitants, and prey to the Avisen.

Urban: Tiered Port Town.
Humid: Heavy cloþes will cause exhaustion checks
Occasional Heavy Precipitation (lightly obscured, extinguish open fires)
Battlefields might be crowded wiþ civilians

Food can only be bought from food places þat match its price. 
Þere is an increased risk of an assassination attempt and a cheaper restaurant

Þe only freshwater sources are from solar stills and rain collection. 




On Turtle Culture

	Grand Tortguga is of course made exclusively out of tenuous alliances, a few fools, and an overwhelming feeling that a bullet in the back is inevitable. 
	Pirates from one faction may mistake members of an allied faction as having their back if something goes down but this is far from the truth. Alliance here largely means "Doesn't fuck with much," so thinking that you're safe around an allied clan puts you square

Faction Families

	Fugins		
		Hate/By:
			Bal'jasar - Caused by High Rates
			Hatain - Kholirahi ships interfere wiþ routes
		Ally:
			Furi - Furi Connections allow overland trade
			Stockwood - Stockwoods are frequent customers
			Kveter-Klas - Þey keep þe Avisen at bay
			Bruchev - Keep Danzuishanese warships out of þe way
		Coerce:
			Avisen - Þe Kveter-Klas Connection
			MacLeodquin - Þreaten routes via furi
			Hatain - Þreatened via Bruchev Mercs
			
		Coerced by:
			Avisen - Hostages
			DurFisher - Blackmail
			Bal'Jasar - Insurance Plan 
			Rockwaller - In Cahoots wiþ Bal'Jasar plans 
		
		Keys:
			Þe Secret of Galvanized Rubber and þe arts þereof, used as a superior sealant and as protection against trebuchet and leaks. Necessary for most river travel
		 
	
	Rockwallers
		Hate/By:
			Hatain - Þreatened by Kholira via
			Barry - Will not Give þe Floating Stone Secret
			
		Ally:
			Bal'jasar - Have been saved by more þan once
			Jaquy - Have uncovered plots against þem more þan once
			MacLeodquin - Trade Stone to Manaharamu for Airships
		
		Coerce:
			Barry - By þe balls for floating stone
			Kveter-Klas - Hostages
			Fugin - Blackmail
		
		Coerced by:
			Barry - Þreatened by Monster
			Furi - Blackmail
			Hatain - Þreatened via Kholira
		Keys:
			Secret of Floating Stone, One type þat floats on water, one type þat floats in þe air, and repels all þings þat come toward it 
		
	Decidente
		Hate/By:
			Murtucks - Don't get along well in talks 
			MacLeodquin - Stormpiercer is Manaharamu tech þat þe MacLeodquin don't have
			
		Ally:
			Kveter-Klas - keeps Avisen at bay 
			Furi - constant trade
			DurFisher - Bargain against þieving 
		
		Coerce:
			Stockwood - By þe balls for Stormpiercer
			Murtucks - Hostages 
	
		Coerced by:
			Avisen - Vampiric Þreat  
			Hatain - Owes Money
			MacLeodquin - Pressure Via Avisen  
		Keys:
			Stormpiercer Design
		
	Jaquy (jah-koi)
		Hate/By:
			DurFisher - Þeft of precious funds by 
			Bal'Jasar - Frequently Foils scams
			Kveter-Klas -Murdered key
		Ally:
			Murtucks - Good in Talks
			Rockwaller - Mediary for Bal'Jasar 
			Bruchev - Danzuishanese contacts enable easier movement in þe west rivercourses
			DurFisher (during the war)
		
		Coerce:
			Bal'Jasar - Blackmail
			Bruchev - Protection racket
			Furi - Hostages 
	
		Coerced by:
			DurFisher - Stolen goods
			Avisen - Strongarm trade 
		Keys:
			Valtu Jaquy & bookkeepers - Nose for scams 
	Kveter-Klas
		Hate/By:
			Avisen - Immune to Vampirism so þey're a hard check to þe Avisen's power in þe island
			Stockwood - Immune to Ghost Powers ''
			Jaquy - (during war)
			
		Ally:
			Decidente - Reliant for Stormpiercer
			Fugin - Reliant for Rubber 
			Hatain - Recieve information on Kholirahi movements in þe norþeast
		Coerce:
			Avisen - Hostages 
			Stockwood - Hostages 
				
		Coerced by:
			Rockwaller - Hostages
			MacLeodquin - High tech prices
			Bruchev - Pressure Via Danzuishanese Navy 
		
		Keys:
			Immune to Vampirism, resistant to magic, Keep some of þe oþers in check
	Murtucks
		Hate/By:
			Decidente - Don't get along well in talks
			
		Ally:
			Jaquy - Get along well in talks 
			Hatain - Þey Keep þe Kholirahi forces at bay 
			Avisen - Pressure on decidente by 
		Coerce:
			MacLeodquin - Blackmail
			Bal'Jasar - Blackmail
		Coerced by:
			Decidente - Foil trade from MacLeodquin
			Stockwood - Ornery Ghosts Þreaten Ghost powers 
		
		Keys:
			Shami Murtuck, þe most silver-tongued person to ever speak on þis island.
			
	Avisen
		Hate/By:
			Stockwood - Immune to eachoþer 
			Kveter-Klas - Immune 
			Fugin - (during war)
		Ally:
			Murtuck - Cools shit down 
			MacLeodquin - provides Manaharamu tech 
			Hatain - Supply of Blood from Kholirahi slaves 
			DurFisher - Blackmail source 
		Coerce:
			Decidente - Straight þreats
			Fugin - Hostages			
			Jaquy - Strongarm Trade 
			
		Coerced by:
			
			Fugin - Pressure Via Kveter Klas 
			Kveter-Klas - blackmail source 

		Keys:
			Vampires, Powerful ones
	Barry
		Hate/By:
			Furi - Interplanar Trade war
			Rockwallers - Gouge for floating stone 
			
		Ally:
			MacLeodquin - Mediate between Rockwallers 
			Bal'Jasar - Good deals, Moneychanging 
			Stockwoods - Good in Talks 
		Coerce:
			Rockwaller - Þhreaten wiþ monster
			DurFisher - Hostages 
		Coerced by:
			Rockwaller - By þe balls for floating stone
			Furi - Þhreaten Terrestrial trade routes 
		Keys:
			Giþyanki Astral Pirates, Harbor an abberation from þe far realm
		
	Furi 
		Hate/By:
			Barry - Boþ Vye for Interplanar monopoly
			Bruchev - Pressure via Danzuishanese Navy
			Stockwood - Ineffective against Eachoþer
			
		Ally:
			Decidente - Constant Trade
			Fugin - Trade deal 
		Coerce:
			Barry - Pressure Terrestrial Trade Routes 
			Rockwaller - Blackmail 
			Bruchev - þreaten western trade routes 

		Coerced by:
			Jaquy - Hostages 
			DurFisher - Blackmail 
		
		Keys:
			Dwallat Tiefling family, Resistant to fire, dark ties
	DurFisher
		Hate/By:
			Jaquy - Þeft
			MacLeodquin - Þeft
		Ally:
			Avisen - Provide Blackmail for Protection 
			Decidente - Get bargains and don't þieve 
		
		Coerce:
			Bruchev - Þeft
			Bal'Jasar - Þeft
			Hatain - Þeft
			Furi - Þeft
			Jaquy - Þeft
		
		Coerced by:
			MacLeodquin - Advanced Alarms
			Barry - Hostages 
			Bal'Jasar - Blackmail 
		Keys:
			Þieves
			
			
	Stockwood
		Hate/By:
			Furi - Ineffective Against Eachoþer
			Kveter-Klas - Ineffective against 
			Avisen- Immune to eachother
			
		Ally:
			Barry - Good in Talks 
			Fugin - Trade 
		Coerce:
			Murtuck - Þhreaten wiþ ghost powers 
	
		Coerced by:
			Decidente - by þe balls for Stormpiercer
			Kveter-Klas - Hostages 
		Keys:
			Run by Ghosts who haven't given up on ruling
			
			
	Bal'Jasar
		Hate/By:
			Jaquy - Frequently Foiled by 
			Fugin - High Rate Insurance plan 
			
		Ally:
			Barry - Good deals, Moneychanging
			Rockwaller - has been bailed out by
			Bruchev - good Customers, Even Trade, good in talks 
		
		Coerce:
			Fugin - High Rates 
			DurFisher - Blackmail 
			
		Coerced by:
			DurFisher - Þeft 
			Murtuck - Blackmail 
			Jaquy - Blackmail 
		Keys:
			Insurance policies - Enforced ones
		
	Hatain
		Hate/By:
			Rockwaller - Þreaten wiþ Kholira 
			Fugin - Kholirahi ships interfere wiþ routes 
			Bruchev - Kholirahi ships interfere wiþ routes
		Ally:
			Kveter-Klas - Trade
			Murtuck - Trade 
			Avisen - Mediate DurFisher 
		
		Coerce:
			Decidente  - Owed Money
			Rockwaller - Þreaten wiþ Kholira 
		Coerced by:
			
			Fugin - Kholirahi ships interfere wiþ routes 
			DurFisher - blackmail 
		
		Keys:
			Powerfully Connected wiþ Kholira, Holds flags to call for ceasefire wiþ þe warlike nation
	Bruchev
		Hate/By:
			Hatain - Kholirahi ships interfere wiþ routes
			Furi - Pressure via Danzuishanese Navy, Tense Past
			
		Ally:
			Jaquy - Saved From Scams by 
			Bal'Jasar - good rates, Good in Talks 
			Fugin - Trade 
		Coerce:
			Kveter-Klas - Pressure Via Danzuishanese Navy 
		
		Coerced by:
			Furi - Þreaten western trade routes
			Durfisher - Þeft
		
		Keys:
			Powerfully connected to Danzuishan, Brings in some of þe most useful raw ingredients
	
	MacLeodquin
		Hate/By:
			DurFisher - Frequently þwart
			Decidente - Stormpiercer is Manaharamu tech þat þe MacLeodquin don't have
		Ally:
			Avisen - Protection for Tech 
			Barry - Mediator /Trade 
			Rockwaller - Mediator /Trade
		Coerce:
			Kveter-Klas - by þe balls for Tech 
			Decidente - pressure via avisen 
			
		Coerced by:
			Murtuk - blackmailed by
			Fugin - Þreaten routes via furi
		Keys:
			Powerfully connected to Manaharamu, gets þe best gadgets

Powerful Individuals
	Naþaniel "Le Requin" http://img.thesun.co.uk/multimedia/archive/00644/SNN0801TVQ-280_644148a.jpg
		A freelancer Mercenary after a payment dispute. He is large, bald, Muscular, and has filed down teeþ. He is 6'4. He watches carefully and can often be found doing some dirty work. He is a capable fighter and weilds a Sharpened Anchor on a chain. He is covered in scars. 
			"Heehaa You....lihttle sonoveebitsh, I will. Kill you. but not now."
			The shark, as he is known, is a rabbit-hole ender. He shows up when the party starts getting too off track into any one particular family.
		
	Guy DeFer "Þe Pipe King"
		A wily old man who knows þe city's Internal infrastructure and passageways better þan any oþer person alive or dead, he has built many of þem
		He is 5'5, and has wiry black hair þat seems uncontrollable. He does not appear to have weapons. He has Bad Blood wiþ þe DurFisher Family 
		 Rush voice, almost rip out your throat at the start "OH, Zis is encroyable"
		 This NPC really only exists to move the plot along but if consulted again, he is able to guide the party around the (con save 12) sewers to their exit hatches.
	
	Vinot Hatain "Souþport Stone"
		Þe harbormaster of Souþport. He is As Stern as Valtu Jaquy but humorless, Will sink ships wiþout blinking if þey don't pay þe toll. He has long black hair in a ponytail, a Tricorn hat, and stands at 5'7. He is Middle aged
			If the party lands on or moves throug southport, Vinot is obstructionist as possible. It takes  100 gold to launch or land from southport. Any interaction with him is monitored by pirates mounted on stormpiercers. He cannot be bribed, hence, "the stone"
				A good way to get around this is with the friend's cantrip or when escorted by a noteworthy member of one of the crews
				
		
	Valtu Jaquy "Count of Coins"
		Þe most able and discerning bookkeeper of Grand Tortuga, Þe most key piece for keeping peace
		Able to track down þe most subtle of embezzlements
		He has Long Brown hair, þin pince-nez, a purple vest, and a weak chin. He is 5'10 and is a Half-elf. He is þe Broþer to Memory Jaquy (by adoption)
			He's fantastically dead. Like, Super dead. The body is under the effects of a modified Gentle repose. Most spells that interact with the dead can no longer do so. 
	
	Acer "Underking"
		Þe Guardian of þe underport, a lich who crawled out of þe abyss below and set up shop here. Þe Stockwoods pay him even þough he not part of þe crew. 
		 he talks in deep whispers when he talks, which is rare.
			Acer doesn't really act much at all, He's in shock from what he experienced from the depths, and gets bugged by talking. He is, of course, Acererak, or at least one of the projections of the lich whose demilich dwells in the tomb of horrors. 
		
	Brevi Emba
		Þe Iyrelm Trading Company's head officer (ESFP)
			A relatively short white Dragonborn (5'10). Very talkative.
			Raise pallate (voice)
	
	Halili Svilsbo
		Þe Svilsbo Trading Company's Head officer, Errabent's Sister. Bit of a dick  https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/originals/47/0d/d2/470dd2fc25983f0483a4a9a7f6321335.jpg
			She Shows only contempt for the party if they try to buy goods. 
	
	Aiquen
		Horton's Trading Head officer 
			An Apathetic Elf who sees more þan she lets on. Rude.
				Some Japanese accent
	Murky
		Copper dragonborn Water Stillmaster. He is cruel and stupid.
			Matt Colville's Dragonborn accent
				Part of the main quest, a contact for Meng Shi.
	Athrog Þaum
		Master Baker, A Quaggoþ
			deep scratchy voice
				A red herring that can be dropped at any point
	Meng Shi
		A Decidente Changeling
			Part of the main quest 
	
	Willy Klas
		A Prodigy of Kveter-Klas' Mage slayers
			The opening Framee, He was actually at one of the whorehouses at the time of the murder.
		
	Leslie Hu!xura
		One of the Westport Angels, A storm Giant of considerable size. She Holds a large Halberd with a nasty hook on the back (Lochaber) or leans it up against her table. She has extremely long white hair and Wears very little, Settling with a brass Chestplate and a thick skirt over one leg. She wears tight shorts underneath. The rest of her silvery-grey skin is uncovered.
			She, along with Mirikius, is/are an optional fight. 
		
	Mirikius The Praised (88 29 )
		One of the Westport Angels. A Polymorphed Half-Dragon Beholder. She has Five Visible Eyes, all seemingly proportionate, with two where they should be, one in the middle of her forehead and two on her temples. Her Ivory skin is contrasted by her black Dragon wings and tail. Visible on her arms are intermittent scales of black. Two long horns sprout from above her ears and point skyward. Her teeth are pointed. Outside of those features she appears to be a human with pale but not white skin. Unlike Leslie, who is Extremely muscular, Mirikius shows smooth skin In her loose white sleeved dress 
	
	
	
Locations
  Faction houses and Relevant NPCs
	1) Fugin House
		Aik'no Fugin (barbarian)
			A Shrewd brute of a woman, A Half-Elf. She has short blonde hair, skin þe same color and stands at 5'11. She is a Heavy-handed Admiral, and wears a Vest and Kilt. Shield wields a Falchion (greataxe). She Also wears a Belt of Giant Kind, Uses a Flame Tongue Sword, and a Mantle of spell resistance
				bombastic language AIK!NO! FU-GIN I DO NOT! APPRECIATE-THIS
		
	2) Rockwaller House
		Quenchen Rockwaller (fighter?)
			 A human wiþ a Light expression.  He is 5'6, has short light brown hair wiþ a rat-tail, and tallow skin. he wears a light shirt, a large blue Captain's Jacket. and has a Cutlass (of speed). Winged boots, and an amulet of health. 
				French accent
		
	3) Decidente House
		Marco Decidente (druid)
			An Elf who always looks like he has been having a very bad day. He is old, showing signs of age þat a human would show at 50. His hair is dirty blonde. He walks wiþ a wooden cane (rod of absorption_, and is known to transform into A large porcupine (Savager, ToB)
			
	4) Jaquy House (flag has a black and blue checker pattern)
		Memory Jaquy (rogue)
			A Gnome who has shifty eyes. He is full-grown and stands at 3'7. He wears wristbands and big-sleeved shirt, and a þick cloak. His hands are never far away from his short sword. His hair is red but shaved close to his head. Gloves of thievery
	
	5) Kveter-Klas House
		Eof (yeff) Kveter (ranger)
			A half-orc who looks wise beyond his years. He is middle aged and stands at 6'3. His Grey-brown hair is brushed into a high cowlick and seems to defy gravity slightly. He has Trident and has gloves made of bone. His skin is grey. He has a Dwarven thrower....trident
				 Swedish accent "ae half oorque hoo luuks wais beyund he yeers"
			
	6) Murtuck House 
		Shami Murtuck	(rogue)
			Þe most potent diplomat alive
			He is 6'0, Human, has short brown hair and is fairly young. He also has a scar across his neck. He wears a purple Haori and Blue shirt. 
				
	7) Avisen House
		Luciaria Avisen (warlock)
			A human Vampire wiþ Silver eyes and Long white hair Wiþ her bangs pulled out of her eyes and tied behind her head. She has Large breasts and wears a revealing Green leaþer corset wiþ a swallowtail and a hitched skirt. She walks barefoot and stands at 5'4. She is always smiling, but never wiþ her eyes, which are always filled wiþ  Purple fire over Constantly shifting irises
			(almost http://gothicdecor.net/wp-content/uploads/2014/06/vampgoth1.jpg http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-Xc8Tg1zIwQA/UjAbuM5i3EI/AAAAAAAAAn0/Oyqh-wDlUTc/s1600/emo+girls+(18).jpg)
			
	8) Barry House (mid north east)(Flag has horizontal stripe)
		Raylag Barry (ranger)
			A Giþyanki wiþ a resting sneer, His teeþ are always visible unless he closes his mouþ on purpose. His Skin is Yellow. He has A Bizzare knife (Kpinga, handaxe) tucked into his belt. https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/assets/268850/Githyanki.png?1385885962 He stands at 5'10, and his eyes are pale pink 
			
	9) Furi House
		Lagarach Munsa (monk)
			Þe Furi Family Representative is a Tiefling wiþ medium horns þat curve slightly up, running roughly parallel. He has medium lengþ silver hair in a short ponytail. His skin is Crimson and his eyes gleam Green wiþ pink streaks. He constantly has þe slightest smile, as if he can barely contain it. He carries no weapon  And dresses plainly in white shirts and brown pants. He Does wear an obviously magical circlet, but no one knows what it does, he is 6'0 exactly. 
	10) Stockwood 
		Captain Jharkes "Jack" Ravora, (wizard)
			Eladrin Wizard who looks far to old to be alive, and, indeed he is not. He is a ghost on þe crew of Þe Extremely Late Admiral Stockwood, who may or may not be completely dead, he floats at 6'2 but is actually 5'9.  His hair, cloþes, hat, eyes, and wrinkled scowl are all transparent blue. He carries a Steel rod (mace) in his sash
			
	11) Durfisher
		Ghuivere DurFisher (BAAAAAARD)
			A black-haired half-elf whose Green eyes sparkle in þe sunlight. She wears a puffy striped hat wiþ a large feaþer. She wears a Þick Leaþer coat and breeches. She plays a trumpet, Often disruptively loud and at awkward times. She is 5'6 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VU27_28hoKs
	
	12) Bal'Jasar
		Sogi Bal'Jasar (fighter)
			A short 5'3 human wiþ Drowish Dark skin and a þousand yard stare on nearly black eyes. His hair is in a short Afro. He wears a Coat of plates and has a large cape made of nets. 
	13) Hatain 
		Nazloe Hatain (monk)
			A young Half-orc Who is remarkably tall at 7'11. Her hair is shaved and her skin is light leaf-green. She wears a Deep blue and Silver Sari. She carries no visible weapon, wand, or implement oþerwise. She is remarkably muscular. Her eyes are amber  and she always seems to smile gently.
	14) Bruchev 
			high Southeast
		Slovenka Bruchev (sorcerer)
			An old human lady who Never seems to touch þe ground. She is 4'8, hunched. Her eyes are one fierce sky blue and þe oþer an iridescent shade not unlike polished brass. She is stern, terse, and does not talk much.
	
	15) MacLeodquin
		Angle MacLeodquin (druid)
			A pleasant and all around jolly Human, who stands at 6'1, has brown eyes and Medium-lengþ blond hair he is grown but not old. He wears a Breacan lined wiþ raven feaþers and a brown shirt. He tends to go for long walks out in þe bay. 
	
  Bazaars
	16) Colli Market
			 Out Midwest, a section of þe town devoted to brick-and-mortar stores, established businesses
			
	17) Shinka Park
			Out upper norþeast, Temporary vendor stalls, a good place to find items þat would normally be uncommon
	18) souþport
			Out Low souþ Shipyard, Usually where you'll find þe most ships. Some Captains sell wares from þeir ships þemselves
	19) Norþport
			Ships and Caravans from Þe norþ togeþer.
	20) Remesari Circus 
	
			In midsouþ, Built into þe rocks þemselves and well inside what used to be þe mountain, Permanent open vendor stalls, accessible from multiple vomitoria
  Ports
	21) Norþport, 
			Ships and Caravans for trade, Hosts þe Scenic view from þe tallest non-magical bridge in þe world, þe Nodnol Causeway. 
				Norþport faces þe tiger cliffs, a strip of white wiþ large Diagonal Black Strips. Þe smell of seaweed is strong here. Extending high above even þe tallest ship is þe Nodnol causeway, which reaches toward land and þe counterport where caravans check in.
			
	22) Souþport, 
			Ships þat are passing þrough.
				Well Worn Stone quays reaching well out into þe bay to form an artificial port announce Souþport as þe first check-in to Grand Tortuga. Many of þe ships here are obviously pirate ships, many outfitted with their own mad rigging. Enforcers crawl along þe dock, making sure no one causes trouble, the air is very salty here
		
	23) Eastport,
			Ships dropping by from þe east þat will head east again
				A smaller Wharf jutting not too far off of the shore shepherds ships into a natural harbor formed in part by  medium-sized river flowing out from a large pipe. þe area is very smelly
	24) Westport,
			Ships Dropping by from þe west þat are heading west again
				A stylized set of floating piers, much larger þan Eastport, near the base of the dock is a large gate, on either side of which Sit a Storm giant Woman and Similarly Sized Dragon-winged woman with Six Eyes.  They Constantly seem to be playing a game which cannot be seen from below. From above it is revealed to be an appropriately sized game of Reversi.
	25) Top Port
		Airship dock, The Highest building in town, only one is at the dock currently. It is an airy and windy place, and made of a simple flat platform and a single shack, where the harbormaster waits for incoming and outgoing ships to check in
	26) Underport 
			Gate to þe Underdark, a large cavern þat can be access via channel in Eastport, only certain types of ships can make it into þe lochs, mostly smaller Galleys. Steam rises from the glassy water constantly and the quiet hum of the power generators is all that can be heard down here once the lochs are closed.  Acer, the lich, stares unmovingly into the long cave constantly. 
  Factories
	
	27) Water Stills
			Run by Murky, Þese Desalinate þe seawater wiþ solar power and an enchanted standing pool. Þis is þe most important source of þe Island's water 
	28) Souþport fishplant
			Many ships drop off a catch on þe way to souþport for a flat fee, it gets processed here and sold to all of þe restaurants, eateries, and many of þe citizens of þe island.
	29) Decidente Bakery and Confection
			Margot Decidente doesn't want to be a pirate, so she bakes goods, bakes good, and bakes baking goods good, While baked good. 
			
	30) Horton Magicworks
			Þe Horton Trading network decided it would be a good idea to hire some mages out of Manaharamu to work in an Artificery. Þis was þe cheapest property þey could get
	31) Stoneworks
		
		A yard in þe norþwest for crafting moguls, Also where þe Rockwallers keep þeir wares and private dock. 
  Companies & Headquarters
	
	Trading companies 	
		32) Svilsbo Trading
				Fish
				Livestock
				Spices
				Fruits and Vegetables
				Wines, Spirits, 
		33)	Iyrelm Trading
				Wood
				Stone
				Cloþ, Silk, Cotton
				Metal
		34)	Horton Trading
				Machinery
				Tools
				Art
				Jewelry
				Dress
	
	Special Services
		35) Dredgers
				-keeps þe ports clear and þe Moguls maintained
		36) Þe Works
				-Keep þe sewage, power, and water flowing around Grand Tortuga
			
		37) Þe Tidal Power Plant
			souþ
		38) Þe Geoþermal Power Plant
			in low norþ
			
			
		39) Bertold's Body Shop (assassinations)
				midwest
		40) Egbarn's Inhumation services (Assassination and funerary)
				Mideast
		41) Hearne's Delivery Services (Assassinations, Þugs, and extortionists)
				Low souþwest
		42) Skippers' (Messengers)
			Þese are often young children who haven't gotten to hate eachoþer yet, þey run messages around town for a silver. 
		
	Places to Eat
		43) Great Deal Kebabs!
				A seedy little Kebab shack near westport
		
		44) Morgan's Organs
				A quiet pub low norþ, Not a nice place to be, house special is a Dark Beer with a Toe in it.
		
		45) Teach's Own
				A bunkhouse and inn near eastport, deals in þe most illicit of drugs
		
		46) Xanaran's
				Of course þere's a Xanaran's. Run by Barstomun Strongbeard, Obviously. In Remesari circus
		
		47) Kidd's Corner, 
				A Modest establisment mid souþeast, Usually Living entertainment 
		
		48)  The Black Bal
				The underside of a Brewery, Right Next To Decidente's Baked goods. Serve a Special "Morning ale"
		
		49) Þe French Dragon
				You're not sure what a french is, but þey serve a really good Hot Phoenix Sandwich (it's actually just Turkey, and everyone knows that, but no one cares), Frequently to a known Bard's Playing. Low Souþwest
		
		50) The Sammish Axeman
				Mid Norþeast, For a drop of 20 gold, you can feed two people wiþ þe finest Griffin Shank in Goldblood sauce
		
		51) Bonny Anne's Kitchen
				High Souþ, þeir cheapest Dish is 40g, and þeir most expensive costs an Astral diamond
				
				
	Oþer Locations
	
		52) Moþer Wuþer's Sensual Oþers - Jaquy 
				a Broþel, o'midwest, Largely Female Workers
		
		53) Helheim's þralls - Avisen 
				Sex slave trade. One can buy people here outright. All kinds all races i'lownorth (slightwest)
			
		54) Þe Shivering Spine - Furi
				A very Large broþel filled wiþ all manner of races, drugs, and oþer entertainment. It is a decadent place
				
		55) Yili's Fill - Bruchev 
				Half grown women, Half Danzuishanese Fuccbois, 

		56) Bal'Jasar Slaves
				Slave trade, low north (slighteast)
	
		57) Court of the Pirate Kings.
			The Home of the Dead Man's Chest, a box sealed under incredibly heavy security both physical and magical, with powerful and quick to communicate representatives from every family on constant vigil. Around the Chest's home pit is a large Glass wall and an Adamantine table that's been long bolted to the floor. Some of the places have chairs, each different, some made of stone, others of wood, all securely bolted down, save the empty places. It is revealed that some people take their chairs with them on their way out. 
			
			
		Common supply chain and economy notes
		
		i. Most food goods come from westport, and largely consist of fish, fruits, vegetables, and dried meats
		ii. Couriers are found close to the docks and warehouses in between each port.
		iii. successful leeches are found On either side of the warehouses, sometimes in the middle
		iv. The largest sources of entertainment on the island are low stakes gambling dens, Brothels, Well-lit plays and ____
		v. Largest profit-making export is professional piracy and manufacturing
		vi. Mortality rate is high, Avg population is in the 30s, crews recruit young readily
		vii. Taxation is only enforced by crew dues, and only spent when it is advantageous.
		viii. the most frequently collectively updated form of social service is sewage, followed by Island defence.
		ix. Specialists are in high demand in this fiercely competetive environment
		x. The largest threat to the well being of the average citizen is from the enemies of their clients.
		xi. Bodyguards are usually a scam
		xii. enforcers are assigned to valued craftsmen by crews, Valued craftsmen can get cocky because of the amount of backup that comes with them
		xiii. Hitmen and Enforcers are commonly used to get rid of bodies, because of the political nature of their targets they are often unassociated with any crew. Everyone agrees this is for the best. 
		Xiv. Bodies of most targets are often eaten then any remains are burned. Corpses destroyed this way are incredibly hard to resurrect.
		Xv. Many bodies are animated and forced to walk out into the moguls, where they are systemically crushed by the pounding waves.
		Xvi. A few Archmages are present on the island but their services are prohibitively expensive,
		Xvii. The presence of any hostile navy sets up a common alarm, in which citizens will climb to their roofs and point stormpiercers at enemy vessels. 
		
		
	The Barry Monster
		The Barry monster is both summoned and dismissed with Use of Avuzbodet, A bed made of Streaked marble that is stark other than the gold trim and purple spinel. Carved into the marble is the Key rune that invokes the spell when someone sleeps on the bed. 
		The Monster comes in the form of gaping yellow-and red maws that are lined with large ivory teeth. The maws are incredibly wide but not proportionately thick. Falling into one is certain death.
		The monster follows these rules. 
			i. When the mouths appear, they will only do so on surfaces that are mostly horizontal. They will not appear on steep hills, walls. 
			ii. The Mouths cannot cross gaps , but they seem to replace the surface they're on so small cracks cease to exist.
			iii. The mouths only stay around for a minute at a time
			iv. The mouths can only appear 7 times an hour.
			v. The mouths have a functionally infinite depth
			vi. the mouths will not appear on any surface that is covered in silver, glass or a sufficiently thick layer of salt. Salt will dispel the mouth if you try to step into it, but can be washed away.
			vii. If the mouth appears on a surface covered in gold, it will be stuck there for a full seven minutes. 
			viii. Mouths will only appear all at once, they cannot stagger their timing.
			ix. All mouths must be gone before new mouths can form
			x. Mouths can never intersect, and they rarely run perpendicular to eachother. 
			xi. Each mouth ends abruptly in a smooth and shallow arc that is always at least 15ft away from any part of any other mouth.
			xii. Mouths will always attempt to appear at similar conceptual levels or sized surfaces. If a mouth appears on the floor, another cannot also appear on a table on that floor. If it appears on the table, it might appear on a nearby counter  so long as the difference in height is only slight (a slope of 1/2 or less between closest points)
	The encounter follows these rules
		i. One Githyanki must lie in the bed for the duration of the appearance of the monster, During this time, the gith is unconscious and experiences the monster's presence as a dream. To control the monster, The githyanki Grandmother "Shrugta Barry" Draws on belly of the sleeping gith in patterns that have been handed down from generation to generation, with a pen and a special white ink, while singing an ancient family song that describes the motions. The Gith that sleeps is then unable to partake in the ritual for another month. 
		ii. The Githyanki blow a horn just before the mouths are unleashed. They do this every time for the first day but then on the second day, they will occasionally stop just to screw with people who figured it out early
		iii. when the Mouth appears, Everyone within The area of any part of the mouth must make a Dex save (dc12) or fall in. 
		iv. Everyone within 15ft of the pit must make a DC15 Charisma saving check or be charmed. On their next turn they move at their full speed toward the maw, using their dash as their action. As a bonus action on their turn, a player can disrupt the Charmed player by grabbing them. They can also do this as a reaction. 
		v. Falling into the pit is instant irrecoverable death without a body. Make this clear. 
	The barry compound is Located through a portal in the back of a closet, behind a false door(per17,inv10), Clues can be found throughout the island in many ways. The Barry retreat to their compound when they decide to summon the monster, so none of their members can be found or traced. They are shielded from scrying.
		i. The horn sound seems to come from everywhere, but that's just because it echoes. Flying allows you to locate its origin, which is The bottom of a pot in the mid-north
		ii. The stockwood ghosts mention that they often met them in eastport 
		iii. the Macleodquin flagship can always be seen on the north-east side of the island.
		iv. The Bal'jasar are getting inside information on the frequency of the monster's occurences, they get this via messenger bird who roosts in a house near the portal
		v. The barry have Isloated and uniquely designed ships in port, an animal can be used to track their distinct scent with a decent level of ease 
		vi. The portal can be detected if you're within 20ft of it and make a DC 15 arcana check.
		
		
	Special items
		Sailor's Ration - Like a ration, but upon eating, grants advantage on checks to swim for 3 hours
		
		Fisher's Baccy - Tobacco that, upon being smoked allows one to reduce forced movement by 5ft for 1 hour. 
			5sp/dose, comes in packs of 10+ for 47 silver
			Don't overdose
		Coffee
			An energy drink that can, for four hours, relieve one level of exhaustion. One gold for enough to brew one gallon.
		
	Market Magic Items
		All common Items in PDF
		
		Eternal chaulk, 360gp, 
			Never breaks or wears down with normal use, any writing cannot be erased for one week except by the original artist or author
		Restful bedroll or Blanket 360gp
			When you finish sleeping in this bedroll or under this blanket during a long rest, gain 1d8 temporary hit points that last until your next rest.
		
Town Structure Format
	Town
		Ringed roads at 1, 3, 5, 8, 13 )X6mi
		
		Zig-zag Switchbacks from each port and halfway between. Roads are wider at the bottom and more narrow near the top from 30ft wide to 10ft wide. 
		
		slope of the hill is rather steep linearly, approximately 30 degrees, and a couple of roads reflect that. Most roads are either flat, or near flat.
		
	Houses. 
		Turtle houses tend to have a few things in common. Houses are often separated by very narrow alleys. Gardens are extremely rare and most vegetables are "imported". Neighbors are frequently strangers, windows are small but front-side skylights are very common, granting privacy and natural light. The island is tropical, and with the placement of certain services, northport has the highest property value. 
		
		Houses tend to be small and defensible, always with a basement. A small pipe is inserted directly into the main sewer line, so plumbing jobs are frequently done in house. 
		
		houses are usually only 15x10 with a steep spiral stair in one corner. The stairs can be collapsed and locked into place for moving furniture or denying entry to upper levels. 
		
		Doors are always locked. Always. The locks are quite frequently Trick locks, which if not opened a certain way, will loose a trap against the invader, usually a bear trap (+8, 1d10, DC15str, Speed becomes 0, DC10 spot, Dc10+tools to disarm). Doors are ironwood, (ac18)
		
		Houses Frequently have an upper floor. People tend to sleep in Hammocks on the upper floor, which mostly just consists of a small (5x10) landing. The hammock is attached on a diagonal to railing. 
		
		Cooking ranges are uncommon, Parafin Wax is used as fuel in old manuals, most ranges are electric.
		
		The main floor is where clothes and belongings are stored. There is very little, if any furniture for sitting. 
		
		There is a small commode on the main floor above the pipe leading from the basement. The basement is often where provisions are stored, frequently with a small magical fridge.
		
	Taverns, bars, and restaurants
		These are all big affairs in Grand Tortuga. Everyone eats with friends or allies nearby. Eating alone is seen as strange. 
		
		Eating Areas are arranged in 10*15 Corridors with dividers between them so no one has their back to the room. The Kitchen is closer to the front of the building so that servers can walk straight down the corridors. 
		
		The walls have many mirrors, often angled so you can see around corners. The mirrors do not line up well so you cannot see around multiple corners
		
		The finest dining places do not have these restrictions. 
		
		The prices for beer and wine are switched here. 
		
		Everything is served with lemon. This is a very old and honored Turtle Custom.
		
		Every restaurant has their own special house dish. It is always Green Sea turtle based.
		
	Story bits
			There used to be fight pits in Grand tortuga, 800 years ago. After a few fouled bets and cheating from the audience, the entire island erupted into uncontrollable war. The council, only 12 members at the time, would have frequent ties, but in this, they were unanimous. No More fight pits
			
			The average age of people in Grand tortuga is about 65 years old, but this is artificially propped up by vampires, ghosts, and elves. All things considered, this is not a good place to age.
			
			Frequently, Merchants will come to grand tortuga to buy their goods back from pirates. They adjust their prices accordingly.
		

		
		
		
		
THE PLOT 

DUN DUN DUN

The Changeling cult has determined that the "dead man's Chest" þat sits in the Council Chambers in the Caldera of Grand Tortuga is actually a pun, and is one of the Bones. Only the Avisen know this, as it was originally their treasure. Shami Murtuck, one of the more powerful changelings, had Valtu Jaquy killed by another changeling (Meng Shi) who was rather high in the Decidente crew, and had him frame the Kveter-Klas' prodigy, Willy. While the Jaquy prepare to Extract revenge from the Kveter-Klas, the Avisen and Stockwood are both preparing for war, unchecked by their greatest enemy. Everything goes to shit from there. 

Upon Touching the shore of Grand tortuga, Thymae senses the presence of a bone somewhere on the island.

The Encounterparty are docked in westport as well, Led by by either Tulio, Bullji, or Derrek, depending on who you ask. They're doing merc work for multiple factions. They try to pin their crimes on Tibeaux's Crew

While eating, Fugin enforcers enter the establishment and attack.

If Questioned the Fugin Accuse The Red Mist Pirates of the Murder of Hetrid Mace, One of the Fugin's recruits. They claim that there are witnesses who saw Tibeaux and Cosades Perform the act. The 13 year old has been clubbed to death just inside the North east tunnel to Remesari Circus. 
The Fugin Crew are on high alert for Tibeaux and number approximately 1 in 12 out of people on the street, Someone might be seen running away if they spot any of the noteworthy members of the crew, Assume trouble will follow if you stick around 

The fugin are less active at night, 1 in 50, but the Avisen, Stockwoods, Furi, and Bal'Jasar are 1 in 10, Killing any of these will . The major Exception to this is Aik'No Fugin, who, with a small, elite escort can be found and the French Dragon just after sundown. 

Shortly Thereafter, the Highwater's Treasury is robbed. Witnesses say that Giþ did it, Five of the Crew are Dead, their throats cut and Eyes gouged out. A hard investigation check reveals that there is a bite mark on one of the crew.

NONE OF THIS HAPPENED
The Crew gets hunted and harassed until they stumble upon a man getting beat up in an alley by some thugs (Egbarnes, sent by Furi). He gets killed in one swoop. When he dies, he reverts to his true form, A boneless changeling. *DRAMABUTTON.COM*  The changeling bears the insignia of the MacLeodquin. an investigation check of 15 or higher finds a letter from Ghuivere DurFisher Asking about the investigation into the Stockwood activity in The Works. You also find 1g tucked in his belt.

A Charisma Check of 10 on just about anyone can tell you where to find  The Works, there are enterances In the Underport, Remesari circus, or at the power plants near the underport or Eastport. 


The MacLeodquin report no Missing members if asked about the man's Death, They will point to the DurFisher, the local thieves as a likely explanation. 

(the route diverges briefly, as the DurFisher will point them to the pipeworks on completing a quest to destroy a ship in the harbor in Souþport. This triggers malevolance from the Hatain(fugin now), causing the Random encounter roll to be roughly 50/50.) The DurFisher Offer Information that they know the party Needs, They point toward one Meng Shi, a Decidente, A changeling, and the cause of much strife against the Murtuck family. It is clear he is trying to stir up trouble with them. Meng shi is a hard man to find, but is often seen in the company of Murky, the Stillmaster.

The Works are a steamy, thick and smelly set of tunnels that can barely fit a person most of the time. On occasion, there'll be a junction where there's a bit of room, or a maintenance shaft. Large Creatures cannot fit in here. Moving through other Creature's spaces is difficult terrain. It is pitch black. 
After a while wandering around the works, They find A Large room covered in pipes, wires, and small red lights. The room is well lit.  
"Marvelous, isn't it" Exclaims Guy DeFer. He explains that this is the most important room for troubleshooting the works. The Stockwoods use the Works for getting around because they're able to access the ducts. They help things along. He explains his sister knows this and just wants excuses for her People the DurFisher, to come down and harass him. He used to be one of them, Until his mother died. If questioned about the Changelings, He beckons them to follow him down a long and winding set of corridors. Somewhere under norþport, he tells them that If you want to find out about the cult of the changelings, to look closer at the ties of alliances. They're trying to keep their head down. The DurFisher's Information can always be bought in coin.


It is at this point that the Kveter-Klas make themselves Known to the party and offer to take off some of the heat if they join up. The Barry and Rockwallers do the same almost simultaneously. They all quickly run away as Slovenka Bruchev floats nearby. She offers the party Tea at her Crew's House. 

If they accept, she leads them to high southeast. Her eyes are remarkably unclouded by time. She speaks with them and is brief. She has been alive for 122 years and is getting a little sick of all this fighting. She has been personal friends with the stockwood's cabin since she was a young 16. She has been at odds with Luciaria Avisen since she was 8. She sees in Tibeaux the same light as her Father, who pushed his way into the politics of this island fifty years after each family was already entrenched. She offers the full support of the Bruchev Crew (and does so in the prese0

Ch2 is marked by the progression into war among the factions and the movement of the Changelings


The Bruchev crew now have a 1/12 chance of joining battle in the daytime with 1d4 extra members

Trying to investigate the decidente causes Meng Shi to run. He transforms freely as he attempts to make it to northport
Meng Shi is an Identical build to Cosades.

With Meng Shi out of the way, relationships between the murtuck and the decidente heal. 

PREP THIS https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VU27_28hoKs
AND THIS https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NkD0MxNY_Bw

Things that didn't happen

The Council holds another meeting the next day. Slovenka asks Tibeaux and Krelthar to stand at her side during the talks. There, all of the Pirate Fleet Admirals are gathered and introduced. No one starts until everyone is present. The Decidente are the last to show up. Marco Decidente looks particularly sour. Slovenka Remarks that he always looks like that. Shami Murtuck (Hero voice) looks visibly delighted and starts the meeting by motioning to a cart that his crew brings in behind him, inside are the corpses of eight changelings.



"I've had to purge my own crew with this news." He looks at Tibeaux "You have my thanks captain, This corruption has seeped deeper than any of us would have known"


prep trumpets
A very tall half-orc woman(drippy, Light becomes leuckt, really hard consonants) glares at tibeaux "it is more likely he is the one who brought them here, I say we (TRUMPETS)" she cuts off as Ghuivere DurFisher's trumpet breaks out in the middle of her talking. She tries to talk, but is interrupted each time by a trumpet burst until A short, white-haired woman with large breasts in a green, black and purple corset, speaks up.  

If the Avisen are enemies of the players at this point, she stares down Tibeaux with hunger. "these, wax-babies have been here for a long time, but I would not think these people are not complicit"

If the Avisen are not enemies "These wax-babies have been here a long time. These new faces might be complicit but this cult has been around far longer than any of the rest of you"
At this, slovenka lets out a quiet cough, "Except you and I, hag, how are you even still alive?"
Slovenka remarks "I start my day off with a drink of holy water. It's highly alcoholic"

"So who *DO we point our fingers at?" Asks Marco Decidente 

The table errupts into argument. An aide Passes Tibeaux a note from Shami Murtuck, offering a fresh alliance. 

The city erupts into war, the first day, the Macleodquin attack the Decidente, Simultaneously, the DurFisher raid the Barry Compound in a move to retrieve their hostages and To block aid to the Macleodquin. At Night the avisen Attack the Decidente to aid the Macleodquin but the Decidente are there waiting. The Barry Retaliate against the DurFisher by Teaming up with the Bal'Jasar to attack the DurFisher ships. 

Slovenka, who meets up with the party at some point seems younger than she was, far younger, looking just out of her prime. She hands a Letter to Tibeaux. It describes How Orsithach Furi caused the death of his father. She then hands him another letter that refers to her as "Babushka Bruchev" and is signed by Lazarus' Father "jean-baptiste arno sebastien tibeaux II", wiþ a Tear stained invitation to a wedding that matches Tibeaux's. "You can't show weakness until it's a strength" Wiþout anoþer word, She flies off Norþ. 



þe rest of þe adventure focuses around the disintegration of the Pirate clans. Most independant crews leave as soon as fighting breaks out.
The General Order follows 
1) The vying for power of the pirate crews. This is entirely in the Player's hands.
	Just follow the chart and see who's got the most allies and the least leverage.
2) The Use of the Largest Weapons. Desperate bigwigs will use their trump cards.
	
		
	
4) The emergence of the cult as a force to fight against. 
		When the crews are minimized and it looks like  there's going to be a power grab, the Changelings make it first. The Murtucks Strike. Everyone in the Council chamber gets backstabbed, literally, and most of them killed. The changelings take the next day trying to get access to the chest, which sits in a pit in the middle of the floor, covered in magical glass and warded against all manner of spell. When in trouble they summon  Combartch Tc'tcaeri, the wizard who grants them an item which constantly spews fire while uncapped to melt the glass.
		
		The Chest contains, of course, a large ribcage and collarbone which can be worn as armor. The armor regenerates the wearer's hit points by 15 per round, except on machines or undead. The Wearer Cannot go unconcious, lose arms, and is immune to poison and disease.
		
		The cult attempts to abscond with the artifact unless stopped, then they get *hostile*
		
5) Two goals 
		The Construction of an airship hinges on Danzuishanese tech. But Tibeaux now has a name for his Father's killer. Orsithach Furi, Patron of the Furi Clan, the most powerful criminal on the plane. There is a secret Tunnel that carries a train all the way to dwallat. 
		
		
