Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2018-06-02T23:05:12-02:30

====== CastleOfTheGodKing ======
Created Saturday 02 June 2018
The Castle of the god-king can barely be called a castle, as it resembles more of a temple. From the god-king's road, the central road that leads through Kholira proper, you can see Four distinct parts. The large and boxy quarters, which is where the god-king has his little-used bedchamber, and the rooms for his some seventy yet-living offspring, their school, and their mothers. The god-king treats his consorts well enough until they have borne his child. The Mother is allowed to be with the child until they can walk and talk on their own, at which point they are sent away. The children learn until their respective ages of maturity at which point they are allowed to seek whatever trade, job, or occupation they wish with two understandings. The first is that the work must benefit the Kholirahi. This is a demand that is stamped into the brain of the child. The things they do are for Kholira, the city of poetry, Not for themselves. The other is that only men can become the god-king, and to be the god-king is to be unchallenged. If someone does overthrow the god-king and take his mantle, that means they are unchallenged. No other contenders may be allowed to live and thus, all sons of the god-king would be smart to prepare to fight for their lives and to take the thrown for themselves. Many of the God-king's sons follow this path. The daughters are ignored once they reach maturity, and often go on to live common lives, although this is sometimes subverted by the ambitious daughters. It's worth noting that after reaching Maturity, there's nothing stopping the children from seeking out their mother and many do, though their indoctrination means that their ideology is a stronger pull than the yearning for family.

The Second notable feature is the small rectangular building that sits on top of this, where the god-king's war room is. It is a massive floor-spanning map of beige in a red room lit by braizers around the room and kept warm by a large hearth. The map is kept updated by skilled scribe-mages who encode the information so it makes sense at a glance.
 
The third is a large, flat area in the mountainside near the palace, or the god-king's tea room. It contains machinery, rare but refined, that allows it to act as a table for a host of considerable size, using magical mechanisms to lift humongous peices of stone to their place, such that the god-king sits at eye level of whoever he is meeting with.

The back of the castle is known as the god-kings garden. from the outside it is some eighty pieces of stone reaching out like the petals of a flower, but blocking the view in. Within it is simply a grey-blue stone shallow bowl-shape approximately 200 feet in Diameter, divided into twelve sections by inch-deep grooves. Each panel is an embossed inscription in Manar, containing the notation for an otherwise long forgotten Manarahi song in each. In the center is a barely raised circular platform containing a circle of runes. If one sits on the dias, it allows one to see all stars in the sky, regardless of the weather, and to listen to the knowledge of those that speak, for some stars do.  Listening to the stars is the sort of thing only people afflicted with one of two things will do. The first is madness, the second is hubris. What the god-king has learned in his time under their eldricth tutelage is unknown to anyone but himself. How he has remained sane is the greater secret. This is where the current god-king spends most of his time.

This castle is built on a large pillar of stone surrounded on all sides by a pit whose bottom can only be assumed thusfar to be extremely distant. A bridge made of white roots spans the gap, though sometimes it withdraws, like a finger that has touched a flame, The gap is a kilometer across . 
